[PC Attribution: Aldous Duncan Refelian (Gus Miranda)]
Excerpted from the entry for the  in Volo's Guide to the Oligarchy of Splendour: The Noble Houses & Merchant Families of Waterdeep
---------------------------------------

Aldous is the one son who has not followed into the family business. Though he did serve a brief apprenticeship under his father at High Road Alchemists, his mother, a devout church-going Oghman, insisted that at least one son be given an academic education. It was Aldous, who was selected for that role when no further off-spring seemed to be forthcoming. Aldous spent most of his youth within the walls of the Font of Knowledge, receiving the classical academic education of the Oghmans. His academic success at the Font was unremarkable, and he was eventually dismissed from further study at the age of 16, before he could advance as an Initiate of the faith. Aldous returned to the High Road Alchemists, where he worked for a few years under the tutelage of his father and his employees. However, his mother had always been adamant about Aldous' academic development, and a compromise deal was struck with the male Refelians. The 18 year old Aldous was sent to continue his education at the Academy of Coins in Mirabar, a mercantile school and temple complex dedicated to the worship of Waukeen and Tymora.

In Mirabar he was to greatly benefit from his family connections with the dwarven Chieftains, and he lived a lifestyle of luxury and excess never before experienced by any Refelian before him.

Aldous excelled in his studies at the Academy, and was quickly accepted as an Initiate in the faith of Waukeen. He effortlessly rose through the ranks of Acolyte, Deacon, and Priest, and by his 22nd birthday, Aldous had completed his studies with honours and distinction. Despite dreams of returning home to Waterdeep, his grandfather arranged for his appointment as a financial and commercial advisor to his old friend, Chieftain Grim Fitzhammer. For a further 3 years Aldous remained in the city of Mirabar. While much of that time was spent in the mines of the dwarves, there was no luxury in which Aldous did not indulge to pass the time while he longed for home.

It was in his 25th year that Aldous finally became discontented enough to take his leave from the service of the Fitzhammer Chief. At this time too, did Aldous come upon what has been termed as a horrific revelation. All the luxuries and pampering to which he had grown accustomed to over 7 years in Mirabar would be gone. All these had been paid for through his family allowance and the generosity of his dwarven connections. The allowance was gone, a direct result of both his father's insistance that a man had to make his own way in the world, and his grandfather's dissapointment in what he perceived as an insult to his dwarven friends. And the generosity of the dwarves would only go so far as the gates of Mirabar.

Determined, Aldous returned to Waterdeep for what he himself has called the three most miserable months of his existence. He attempted to reintegrate himself into the family alchemical business, but quickly found that his academic expertise was underappreciated by the apprenticed members of the company. He also found his wages to be unsatisfactory to cover the expenses of the lavish entertainments and finery which he required, which prompted tremendous rows and arguments between him and the elder Refelians.

Salvation of a sort, for Aldous, came once again at the hands of his mother. Her cousin, the merchant Heinrich Lowen of Iriaebor, had recently opened a branch of his trading coster in Waterdeep. Now, he was preparing to return to Iriaebor, leaving his son Samuel in command of his Waterdeep operations. Heinrich agreed to take young Aldous with him to Iriaebor, where a close friend of his served as a high ranking cleric at Waukeen's Tower of Gold. The cleric owed Heinrich a favour, so he would see to it that Aldous was taken in at the Tower.

To date, Aldous remains in Iriaebor serving not only as a staff-member at the Tower of Gold, but also as an advisor for the Lowen & Sons Trading Company.
