[PC Attribution: Chadrazzan Kossur (Les Blackwell)]
Significant Entries From the Journal of Chadrazzan Kossur
Awakening From Madness
Hammer, 1485
I have just killed my retinue and the girl that they were holding for me. The smell of their still-smouldering flesh fills this rotten little hovel in which I hide, and it is a pleasing smell that confirms for me that I am happy to have incinerated these pitiful sycophants, though I wish the girl was spared.
Perhaps I should start at the beginning, though… 
Today for the first time in decades I am able to write. I have awoken now fully from the half-dream through which I have been stumbling for many years. Today for the first time, memories came flooding back to me, including my name, and where I came from, and what happened to me. I think I have been in and out of my mind several times over the last century, this confounding Spellplague taking root in me periodically. I have some very muddy memories filling some voids between the end of the 14th Century and this, but I shall try my best to record what I now recall. I have, many decades ago, hidden some of my precious books in a safe spot that I shall endeavour to repatriate in the near future, and my adventures aboard the Wastrel are well documented therein, and so, being of pitifully limited means just now, and short of ink and paper, I shall start where those surreptitious records leave off.

Sometime towards the end of 1385, my time aboard the Wastrel came to an end. The foolhardy Captain decided that he wanted to sail to Sespech; we were close by the place, and had heard horrifying tales of what was transpiring there, and Mudge, in his limited wisdom, decided we had some role to play there. All I knew was this; whilst aboard the Wastrel, Mavri and I were spared from the afflictions that were destroying Practitioners and driving them insane all over Faerun, and I didn’t want to leave. However, I also knew that the terrible dweomerstorms were something of an epicentre for the affliction, and I didn’t want to sail a fathom closer.

A heated debate on our course of action was joined, and all hands took part. I sued for reason, and for the others to understand that sailing right into one of those storms was beyond even the remotest limits of safety and sanity, but the others would not listen. Mavri, for once was silent; she knew that our well-being was tied to this vessel, but that it would be seriously compromised if we approached the storm in Sespech. However, I think she might have already been loosing her mind, or perhaps was just confronted with a palatable threat to her power for the first time in her remarkable adventuring career, and could not cope with it, and would not take my side. Cedric said that he felt safe because the Shadowdweamor had not been affected the same way (though he was wrong), and sided also with the crew, who he never ceased trying to please. In the end, the mundane crew won the argument, and I burnt then some bridges that I will never again cross. I left the Wastrel that day, after cursing and damning them all for fools, and I have never seen them or the Wastrel again.

Now, I suppose that most of them would be dead by now anyway; the Captain didn’t have more than a dozen years left in his liver if the rest of him survived whatever befell them in Sespech, and anyway a century has passed. I don’t miss many of them, but to be honest with myself, in my own mind it only seems like a couple years since we parted ways, though in truth, most of them are dust and bones by now.

Cedric perhaps still lives. He is of a long-lived race, and if Mudge didn’t drive them right into their doom, I suppose he may yet walk this corporeal realm, no doubt wreathed in tobacco smoke and whores. I hope to cross paths with him again someday in this world.

At any rate, I quit the Wastrel and was left to my own means in a forgettable fishing village on a forgettable shore, and I immediately thought of home. I was alone in the world again, and I longed to see what was happening at home. After long years in the wilderness of the West, I felt that I could again confront all which I had fled from back in Unther. My skill as a summoner was  by few in those days, and at that point in my career, and I knew that I would be able to gather a host about me and make my return and claim what was rightfully mine; my father’s kingdom, the ancient and immutable Kossurrian. 

The details of my return could fill two of these pitiably small books, so I will have to leave out most of it. But suffice it to say that after a couple years I did in fact find my way back to the Kossurrian with a sizeable retinue, even though my Art was unstable, and my command of it untenable. 

I returned to find my father’s kingdom (rightfully mine) completely destroyed; The Kossurian had been razed completely, and there were bands of slaves-cum-marauders roaming the lands like so many jackals. And one recognized me as the Son of Kossur, and things went poorly. My Art failed that day, and my retinue followed suit. I was able to make my escape, but found myself once again on the run, submerged again in the nightmare that I lived decades before, when I escaped my home the first time. Deciding that hiding in Skuld worked so well the first time, I again made my way there.

Now, I have seen many kingdoms rise and fall in my time; I have seen the slow death of entire civilizations, and the constant changing of the political landscape, and the ruinous visitations upon the cities of the mutable west that are concomitant with it, and I have never given it more thought than an academic curiosity. I even saw the end of my own family’s kingdom, and that was somewhat difficult to bear, though I half expected it for much of my life. However, when I came to the ruins of Skuld, I was crestfallen. 

Ancient Skuld, who was old when even Myth Drannor was young, and who had relations with Netheril herself, and many ancient and forgotten cultures from the Unapproachable East. Ancient Skuld, where I was harboured and nurtured and became the Wizard I was in those days before the Spellplague. Skuld was the first place that I respected that I had seen brought to ruin by those dangerous times, and something in me changed that day. The last clear memory I have of my life was standing in the blasted wastes before her quondam peerless gates, now so much rubble, and shrinking, for the first time in all my days, to my knees, to shake my head at tragedy. At that very moment, I fell fully to the affliction that lurked deep inside me, and lost command of myself. My story fades then for a while.

I think that sometime a few decades later I came to my senses, and perhaps I was still somewhere in what was left of Unther or Mulhorrand, which I understand is now called High Imaskar. I am sure I was a slave, but I am sure I escaped, and fled to the West again. I have vague memories of robbing and killing and stealing aboard ships, and running and fighting for my life, all with not so much as a cantrip to help me along. But those memories turn again into a malevolent and lurking madness from within, and I know that I became a wild thing for many decades following.

There are some periods between now and then that I awoke, and in those times I was more and more aware that I had been something greater in the past, but never did I realize I had been a great Conjuror, much less a Son of Kossur, and always I resorted to the basest means of survival; hiding at the fringe of this small place or that, lurking as some sort of devilish hedge-mage, sometimes with a companion, sometimes as a lone and despised thing.

However, some few years ago, I awoke again from my beastial madness, and this time I must have remembered that I had previously owned some power, great or small. I think I managed to kill some lonesome fledgling mage in a town not far from here, and started to teach myself command of the Art, such as it is these days. I was still a hated and feared thing that had to hide and lurk, but I was able to muster not only some small power, but a small retinue as well. I was surrounded by half-bred nightmares who lacked any cohesive plans or wills of their own, and we became something of a marauding band of brigands in the wilder places here in the Grey Vale, staying well away from the larger towns and the busy road.

I think we made a good career of it, but that changed today. It all changed because of a girl. It always has to be a girl…but here I have to back track a little.

I will never forget the day that I was cast out of Kossurian; it was, in the calendar of the West, Greengrass of 1215 DR, and though I was already more than a century old, I was just then developing the desires and lusts of the springtime of life for a devil such as myself, and this came with trouble. My father always told me to keep out of the slave pens, and specifically, that I should stay out of the thighs of the slave girls. Kossurian was in those days a kingdom of many tens of thousands of slaves, and maintaining peace and order among such numbers requires that certain rules be followed by both slave and slaver alike, and the raping of slave girls by their masters topped the list of transgressions to avoid. Until that spring, I had been properly raised, reared and educated, and I am sure there were no signs of my uncontrollable lusts.

However, just previous to Greengrass that year, that changed. I recall with the most vivid clarity the daughter of my father’s groom. She was deliciously small, perhaps 5’ tall and not an inch taller, though she had the endowments of full womanhood. Often she accompanied him in the stone carriage house in our summer estate, learning his proscribed trade, and that spring I could not take my eyes off of her, as she helped her father; she would have to stand tip-toe and stretch as high as she could to reach the back of an 18-hand charger with the brush, and her simple, clean chemise would ride just north of her navel, and my blood would boil. One night I arranged for her father to take some of the horses out for a walk, and then had my personal servant fetch her to the carriage house, insisting that one of the horses needed tending to, and that in her father’s absence, she would have to be the one to take care of things.

Of course, the only mount she dealt with that night was me. I cornered her alone in an empty stall, and attempted to seize her. The terror on the girl’s face when she realized what I intended made my mouth water and my blood boil all the more, and though she broke a burning lantern over my head in an attempt to escape, I eventually held her down in the straw, and had my way with her. Unfortunately, though I got what I wanted out of her, the lantern that she broke caused something of a fire which I was completely oblivious to. Whilst I forced myself upon her, our bed of straw became a pyre, and she was burned most terribly during the slaking of my lust.

When I was done, I rolled off of her and enjoyed the moment, but her father returned that very instant, no doubt alarmed by the growing fire and the screams, and he managed to pull his horribly burnt and disfigured daughter from our consummatory bed-pyre, and left me there laughing in the midst of it. I then had that post-coital moment of clarity that I am told men of every race experience, and decided it was best that I made my way out.

Now, even though I was the Son of Kossur, and she was but a slave’s daughter, I had committed a terrible crime, and I knew it well. I had quickly to devise a wicked plot to keep my black behind out of hotter water, and had the father framed for the burning of the barn, with accusations made of his incestuous rape of his own daughter, who was too traumatized and terrified to dispute the charges. He was killed for his crimes, and all seemed well.

However, I learned then one thing about my race and the nuances of our procreation; though only a couple of weeks passed by after my intercourse with the groom’s daughter, she came quickly to full bearing, despite her nearly-fatal burns. I suppose my plot to kill her father was only partially successful; in the weeks that followed his death, I kept my place in my family and on the estate, but the slaves knew what had happened, and further, they knew that I had impregnated the girl. Now, no landed lord of Unther keeps slaves without many spies amongst them, and so my father learned of my transgression, and he instructed me to make things right. He knew also that the girl would soon be delivering our child unto the world, and he said that would never do. So, I set out with a number of our most trusted slave-guards into the camps to find the girl. It wasn’t long before we found her in a large tent, and we had to force our way in through protesting senior women who exclaimed that she was delivering the child that very moment.
What followed was a nightmare that shaped the rest of my days.
As I forced my way into the tent, I did indeed find the mutilated and deflowered thing in the midst of her throes, surrounded by the usual throng of crones and maidens that one finds at the birthings in the slave pens, and they recoiled in superstitious terror as I approached the scene. I guess I should have done some immediate and gruesome and definitive violence upon the girl before she delivered, but I was struck with wonder that she was about to deliver unto the world something that was of my loins. So I stood there and watched intently, and her helpers backed away slowly and cautiously from me, the devil who had visited this nightmare upon the slaves, as she writhed and suffered, suddenly alone.

Before long, my child erupted into the world; it was a disfigured thing that was all bulbous, wiry haired and toothy, and it tore and gouged its way into this world in a manner that even I found disturbingly gruesome and uncommonly bloody and noisy. I cannot to this day tell you the fate of the poor girl, whether she lived another day or not, but she certainly would not have use of her organs of progeny after that violent eruption of my angry spawn into this world.

As the creature tore its way free of the groom’s daughter, the slave women in the tent began to scream in terror, and a great chaos was suddenly upon all of us. I commanded my men to kill the creature, which already was bounding around the tent and harassing the other women, with the strength and agility of a hunting hound. The gruesome aberration seemed intent on feeding on some flesh, and it made several terrible wounds with its misshapen claws and mouth on both women and guards alike, and when it seemed clear that the thing could not be easily caught, I gave the signal for a prearranged course of action that I had plotted. Outside the tent, some of my most trusted slaves doused the tent in oil and put it to the torch. The tent filled with thick smoke immediately, and before long was completely engulfed in flame. In the confusion, I made my way out of the conflagration, and back to the palace.

My plan had not worked, and I did nothing to help clear up the matter that my father had insisted I take care of. In fact, rumour got back to us quickly that a monster was loose in the slave camps, and that many slaves whispered that it was in fact my child, born of the poor groom’s daughter. My father was left with no other course of action than to banish me from the kingdom at that point; the slaves demanded blood for what I had done; not only had I brought this terrible monster into the world (and I merrily report that the thing harassed the slave camps for months to come, though I cannot say what happened to it in the end), but over a dozen slaves were dead because of me, many of them valuable maidens and learned midwives. They rightly demanded justice, and though my father would not turn me over to them, I was forced to leave home, and it was then that I fled to Skuld. There is much history that comes after that, but let me return to the events of today.

This morning I was awoken by my motley retinue who had brought me a fetching young girl of some 15 or 16 winters. Where they got her I never learned, because the sight of her had the same impact on me as the groom’s daughter centuries before. She was small and curvy and terrified, and what little sense I had been slowly acquiring during my awakening from my madness went presently out the window, and I veritably threw myself upon the girl, and dragged her to my bed, her screams and crying a delight to my ears. However, I had a moment of epiphany, perhaps caused by the nearness of the situation to that carriage house rape of bygone centuries, or perhaps just because of the waking of my springtime urges and the turbulent flow of blood through my partially dormant mind. Whatever the cause, a flood of memory gave me pause.

I stopped my assault upon the prostrate and pinned creature beneath me, and looked up at my detestable minions, who looked on with drooling lust and anticipation. I realized that they likely thought I would share the spoils after my turn, and it was then that I realized that everything was wrong. These mongrels should not have been allowed to touch her bare flesh, much less witness me in my violent lust, and I was repulsed by the entire situation. I looked around, and saw that I was in the dirtiest of hovels, with skins hanging on the walls, a mattress of greasy straw, and other vile trappings of a marginal life in the wilds, and I was thoroughly repulsed. In one moment of rage, I stood up, naked as the day I was born, and I roared at them; “I am Chadrazzan Kossur, and you are beneath contempt!” I unleashed a terrible burst of flame that consumed everything and everyone in that damnable hovel, this devil excluded.

Fortunately, some of my things have been spared; I had one crude chest that preserved my most valued possessions; those mean things that I have pilfered and stolen in the last Set-knows-how-many years since I again half woke out of madness. I know not what name the creatures that worshiped and followed me knew me by, but that matters not today. Today I again take up the name Kethoth Sepret, and today I again set off into the world to see where the fickle Tides of Fortune may lead.
Gathering Myself in the Wilds of the Grey Vale
Ches, 1485
The last few months have been a time of discovery for this devil. I am pleased that there seems to be no sign of my madness recurring, and I have put together a good many things about how I have spent the last eight or ten years, though not how I came to the Gray Vale in the first place.

I emerged from a self-made charnel house a few months ago in the foothills of the Greypeak Mountains, just on the eastern edge of the Southwood. Emerging, I had a fantastic view of the wood below, and the cold and fast-running Greyflow river beyond. In the remote distance to the northwest, I could see the Star Mountains, and though all about me was a vista of no small rustic charm, the Star Mountains are inspiring and majestic. My camp was perched high in the foothills of the Greypeaks, which rise to the west, cold, bleak and indifferent.

The camp I was in had a couple more hovels and evidence of the rough-living of a few dozen creatures of mean habit; the filthy common area was littered with detritus of all unmentionable varieties, and a couple crude cages made of beech boughs held some frozen captives who had not survived the inclemency of some previous night. I was aware almost immediately that creatures were fleeing from the camp, no doubt from my burning rage, and as one crude door opened in another ramshackle hut, I unleashed another gout of flame into the door, leaving one bipedal corpse burning in the doorway, and sending a few more back inside to hide in terror, until the flames and smoke consumed them too. I was in a rage just then, and I brought flame down upon every building, and every significant pile of supplies in the camp. By the time I was finished, I was standing in the midst of a decent inferno, and smiling broadly at the indefatigueable spell fire which I was able to master.

This was when I first realized I had changed. I had employed flame and other simple evocations in my earlier career as a Master Summoner, but never was I able to wield it in such considerable volumes or for such a sustained period of time. Magic has changed, for this devil at any rate, and I am sure that there are academic mages in the learned institutions of the Great Cities that remain, that are spending every waking hour studying the changes, and likely wasting a good bit of time and ink with theories and such. For Kethoth, it is enough to know that Art has changed, but that I still have command of it. I have much again to learn, but it is coming to me quickly already.

To return to my fiery awakening into the world, I should say that I came to my senses after a little while and a lot of flame. I regretted nearly immediately the torching of everything around me when I realized how cold it was outside, and how distant I must be from any warm and habitable place. However, something of the maddened bandit that I had been took over in an instant, and I soon found that I was cloaked in malodourous but warm and serviceable furs from head to toe, and had a variety of things stuffed into a large leather bag that would help me get from one place to the other in this unforgiving wilderness.

Now, I have spent countless nights under the stars on my adventures with the crew of the Wastrel; I am sure I watched Brenan start a hundred fires, and seen Cedric turn every variety of land-going creature into a delicious feast. However, always I was at mentionable discomfort whilst out-of-doors, and though my companions relished any chance to hike up a forested mountain trail in any sort of inclemency, I only every grudgingly followed, and then only if there was a hope of plunder at the end. These days, however, I can tell you the names of every plant and tree that I pass, and to sleep on the ground with nothing but a skin and my bag for bedding is no discomfort to me. I have changed.

These changes and newly-acquired wilderness skills suggested in the back of my mind that it was time to move. The inferno that I had caused would attract attention, and though I half considered hiding in ambush to kill any curious investigators, I did take my leave of the charred remains of my recent, half-remembered life. 

I headed instinctively uphill at that point, keeping off of ridges to stay hidden, and being careful not to leave tracks in conspicuous places. I should clarify, for my own humble benefit if nothing else, that I am no Ranger or professional wilderness tamer of any sort. I am however, capable now of surviving in some mean fashion; I made small warm fires, had plenty of fresh game and some roots and things to eat, and was, for a time, relatively comfortable. I was living in conflict with myself, however; my new wilderness skills suggested hiding in the mountains, while the old Noble-from-Unther craved civilized contact. In the end, after a couple weeks of skulking around in the foot hills, I made my way down into the Valley, towards the river and the road that I knew were the conduits of civilization, in whatever fashion it has in these parts and times.

I made my way indirectly towards the hamlet of Zelbross. I wanted to head directly towards Loudwater right away, but I thought that after all my villainy in the wilderness, that I had best collect some intelligence first. And I’m glad I did.

I decided it might be best to take advantage of my nocturnal proclivities, and so entered the small settlement late at night. It was warm with the melt, but the moon was shrouded in cloud, which suited my purposes. While there were two men walking the perimeter of the town with torches and what I think was a nearly-empty flask of spirits, they were easily avoided, and I managed to get readily to the village square, where I looked over the various printed news, invitations, weather predictions, and warnings. A weather-beaten broadsheet advertised a generous reward for the capture of the bandit ‘Kossur’, and I must have gone the colour of snow when I read my name. Never in all my wanderings in the many corners of the Faerun did I ever even whisper that name, for fear of the many people hunting after the Son of Kossur who had sewn such wickedness back in Unther. Ever did I go by ‘Kethoth Sepret, Scholar of Skuld, Plunderer of the Ruavin’, and a few other misdirecting titles, but not once did I mention my father’s name. However, on that warm spring evening, standing in the muddy square of an insignificant bywater on the East Road, there it was in bold typeface, tacked to a busy message board right next to an advertisement for the following week’s bake sale.

Fortunately, the likeness of me on the picture was crude. It had the colour of my skin pretty much right, but it included enviably long fangs, and horns that not even my father had. I had a sense that I might be able to evade this infamy if I could only package myself a little neater. 

I took the time to learn something of myself from the broadsheet, which claimed that I had been a bandit of constant engagement from Daggerford to Llorkh for nearly 20 years! The list of my transgressions was topped by cavorting with goblinoids, and ‘perpetuating the forceful breeding of half-bloods with the vilest sort of monsters that go on two legs’. Well, that does rather resemble something I might get involved in, and so I decided most of the charges were probably true. They included murders by the score, countless abductions, thefts, beatings, rapes, and every other sort of violent criminal endeavour, all the while carried out with a host of the ‘vilest sort of monsters that go on two legs.’ 

To get back to my packaging and countenance, I knew I had to have a change and double quick. I had every intention of heading back East, towards Loudwater; a large town I had been to over 100 years before, and which I remembered to be something of a semi-precious jewel in an otherwise barbaric wilderness. However, I wanted to go in better fashion that I could currently present, and so I crept about the village until I found an inn that was seasonably busy. There were a few small caravans encamped about the place, with many of the poorer sort who accompany them surrounding a few anemic fires situated in the dry islands amidst the boundless muck of the settlement. They carried on cheerfully enough, though; the night was warm and they must have been in drink. Any one of them would have been easy prey for Kethoth, but I knew that if I was to go about in a presentable manner, that I would have to find the important men of the caravans, who would no doubt be inside the Inn, resting in a dry bed, perhaps with a local girl.

Here was the trick, though; I wanted to head east, which meant that I had to find someone who was heading west. It would not do to rob or kill some bastard, take his clothes, and then be mistaken for him by his travelling companions at the next watering hole on the road. I crept about the wagons and pack animals for a while, and found one caravan that was carrying copper ingots from a mining company up Llorkh-way, and decided that his coster, the ‘Abbotswine Company’, was the one to exploit. 

I could have asked about the camps outside for the location of the caravan master for Abbotswine, but I didn’t think that would do; there was no need to have my memorable face asking questions about a man who was about to have his fate changed. I decided instead to prowl about the windows of the inn, and gather what intelligence I could. I knew I could make a hasty and violent escape into the night if I was discovered, and be none the poorer for it. But by taking my time, and watching every person I could through every window that offered the opportunity, I was able to espy one very well-fed man who was groping at the local girls, trying to keep the squirming things on his lap, though all got off quickly, and to his amusement, and this man eventually boasted loud enough for me to hear, that he was headed to Waterdeep with a fortune in copper. I watched the man drink his fill, grope his fill, then stagger upstairs to his bed chambre; I had to crouch and crane my neck at the remotest corner of the grimy pane of glass through which I was spying in order to follow the man’s progress to his room, but I marked it well, and made my way quickly around the other side of the building, beneath his window. 

The drunk letch’s window was on the second floor, but I was able to quickly find a rainwater barrel to stack on top of some crates, and thus pyramid my way up to my prize. I guess I must have made a bit more noise than I wanted, because I was soon set upon by the two drunken fair-weather guards whom I had so easily avoided earlier on. They had the poor sense to try to sneak up on me and attempt to bag me themselves, rather than just sounding the alarm, which would have sent me scurrying away into the wilderness again, and this was their demise. For Kethoth unleashed the most powerful magic at his disposal just then, and put them both to sleep as they sprung like a pair of lummoxes towards me. There was nothing for it but to slit their throats, and carry out the rest of my business expeditiously. I mounted the barrel, pried open the window of my drunken quarry, and entered his room. As I was crossing the room, a guard in the corner stirred to wakefulness, and half-stood from his chair, paralyzed with either fear or surprise, and this was his undoing as well. I sunk an arcane blast between his eyes, which had the unwanted effect of rousing his drunken charge, who flailed about in bed awkwardly, trying to gain his bearings. I paralyzed the man with a bolt of negative energy, and though it didn’t kill him outright, it gave the advantage I needed over him. I pounced on the man, and held my bloodied knife to his doughy throat, and promised him he would live if he only answered a few easy questions.

I should say at this point that I have gained some mastery over my tongue, which in my glory days I used most carelessly. I have somehow learned to hold my thoughts, and to listen to others before speaking, and I have learned how to sling falsehoods like I used to sling curses and oaths. And so I lied to this corpulent trader, promising his life, though I knew he must perish. I found out that he was indeed the owner of the company headed west, and that he had already been to Loudwater. In fact, he told me exactly what he had worn in Loudwater, and those clothes I later threw into the small fire in the room. First, though, I slit the man’s throat from ear to ear, and watched as his face contorted through a series of emotions; first disbelief, then rage, and finally a pathetic sort of pleading. 

To sum up this already lengthy account of my first real challenge as a Wizard in the 15th Century, I conjured up a Tenser’s below the window (I would praise Thoth himself if I thought he could hear me, for the preservation of this most useful evocation), threw the two bodies out the window upon it, and stole out with all the wealth and useful possessions and clothing that the merchant had. I had summoned up a particularly powerful disc, and was able to throw my first two victims of the night on top of the pile, and the five of us made our way into the wilderness.
The bandit ‘Kossur’ had struck for the last time.
Returning to Civilization
Tarsakh, 1485
I am now living in comfort and fashion, such as can be found in Loudwater.
I came her only a couple of weeks ago, wearing the finest clothes that the copper merchant had to offer; they are decent and presentable, though I wondered at the fit; the man was 100 lbs greater than I, and some of his things hung off of me. However, I was able to spin a quick tale about suffering the flux on my long journey from Calimshan to Loudwater, and I have done a decent enough job of passing myself off as something I’m not, that I am currently living in the rich quarters of the Lord Mayor of the Town of Loudwater.

Loudwater is a place much changed since my last visit, which was more than 100 years ago. It is not as populous, but yet it seems more prosperous. The place is abustle with various resource based oeconomies, and there is much coin changing hand. Here, I am Kethoth Sepret, Royal Surveyor of the Pasha Riminsk of Calimshan, and I am on official business seeking trade contacts. I like this lie well enough because it affords me the chance to lament for the finer things that I so enjoyed in Calimport many years ago. I am told that Calimshan is as prosperous and as civilized as ever, and I eagerly anticipate a return there at some point. It is there that I am most likely to find my old friend, Cedric. 

In Loudwater I have discovered that I have indeed developed the silver tongue that I used to envy in my father. I have been able to turn my devilish countenance into a social focus in my favour, rather than against it. However, I should say that the world has changed a bit, and likewise in my favour; when last I was in this part of the Heartlands, those with my looks were at the least scorned, and often met with overt hostility. However, the people of Loudwater do not all recoil from me like I would have expected, and indeed there are stranger folk than me afoot here. This has helped me to sharpen my social weapons, such as they are, and to thrive in this odd little enclave of civilization nestled in the wilds.

Shortly after I arrived in Loudwater, I immediately liquidated the goods I had taken from the copper merchant, and I now wear custom-tailored clothes of respectable linen that are both fashionable and serviceable. I have washed away the countenance of the bandit Kossur, and am thoroughly submerged in the role of Kethoth the Royal Surveyor, and it is a comfortable role. It has been made all the more so by the skinny halfelven Lord Mayor of this town, Illustryel Moonfire.

I met Illustryel in the trade-quarter of Loudwater, on the street happenstance. Fortune found me wearing my new robes, fresh from the tailor, and I was looking as good as I had been in untold decades. Illustryel stopped me then and there and introduced herself. She’s a gregarious thing, to be sure, and though I was taken aback at the forthright friendliness of this nearly attractive halfelven lady, I had wits enough about me to bow deeply and make a cordial greeting. It was 2 nights later that I found myself on top of her in her plush bed in her fine home, heaving and sweating and trying to imagine her resisting.

I should elaborate just a little on our relationship, and the curious complication that I have with it. Kethoth has had many lovers, but not a single one of them was willing. Not even the well paid and peerlessly-professional escorts of Calimport could conceal their contempt for this devil, and I wouldn’t have it any other way. What is the value of something freely given? Nothing! I do not come like some poet, on bended knee and with presents and charming words for those I would take to my bed. I am no beggar of love. It is only when a lover resists with all her strength and soul, and when I am only able to take her, inch by clawing inch, that I am satisfied. It has always been this way. Illustryel, however, is a willing participant in our copulations, and I have to own that this makes things difficult for me. I must needs resort to memories and imagination whilst taking her, in order to muster the needed assets to finish the job, and I am sure she knows it, for she is most happy and satisfied when she is atop me, and I beneath her, though I can scarcely stand for it, as it were. At any rate, she has never boiled my lust; I have only ever been half fond of elves and their like, and she is somewhat too skinny. She’s a handsome woman, but her skinny figure seems to Kethoth something akin to a pig’s foot, crammed into a fancy dress many degrees too small for her prepubescent-sized breasts. She dresses and speaks and acts well, but none of this will ever be enough for me, so long as she keeps me as her consort.

Now, I am Illustryel’s plaything, and I harbour no other misconceptions. She seems almost simple in her uncommonly voracious taste for me, but I will not twice make the mistake of thinking any elven lady simple. Illustryel wears the guise of the gregarious politician, with a charming and optimistic disposition that is perfectly suited for her damnably frequent parties and social gatherings. Set’s Blood! But how I have grown to hate those parties. I am paraded about like some sort of flashy bauble on her wrist; always a thing accompanying the great lady, and I think she delights in it, though I don’t quite know her mind yet. She does enjoy her parties, and she does enjoy mounting me with debilitating frequency, but I don’t think I hold any more important role than mountable accessory.

At least, I didn’t think so until last week. As I have said, there are no simple elven ladies, or halfelven for that matter. Illustryel is a warlock of some stamp, and though I have tried to piece together the source of her power, and I am privy to her nocturnal ramblings in some tongue unknown to me, I am as yet unsure of the nature of her power. I have prepared a spell of tongues to help me interpret her alien ramblings the next night that we spend together. Though she usually talks in her alien language most nights, one night she even bolted upright, and scrawled some cryptic message on her chamber wall. I have recorded it is best I can in the back of this very book, and shall endeavour to translate it as soon as possible. Illustryel certainly has some deep secret, and perhaps a potent, yet unharnessed power about her.

The lady Illustryel also has the romantic interest in adventure that one might find in children in any part of the Realms. In fact, it is for this very reason that I think she has kept me on; there is little doubt that her sexual proclivities drew her at first to me, and that my new-found guile kept me in her chambers for some time, but the fact that I am a wizard of some small power is known to her, and I don’t doubt that she knows that I am something rather a little more than the Royal Surveyor that I claim to be. In fact, she has recently given me a task, a little quest involving a ghost or a demon in some ruins to the east. She has heard that this ruins are called Spellgard, and that the demon therein will grant a wish or some other fantastic and ridiculous boon to those that can brave the pits of snakes and riddle-slinging-trolls that guard its secret lair. I have a mind to dismiss this nonsense completely, but she has given me a sizeable sum of money to find out what I can about this legend, and to hire the muscle needed to complete this noble quest.

Illustryel insists that the demon has a vast and inestimable knowledge, and that it will grant us some secret knowledge when we confront it, as our reward for braving the silly adventure. What is amusing to Kethoth is that she will have me ask of the thing where a great and ancient treasure is buried. I can understand the lady’s desire for treasure, but Kethoth would be inclined to ask the creature, if such is my right and boon, what the nature of his limitless knowledge is. We shall see what becomes of this child’s gambit.
Kethoth is flush with means just now, and there is work to do.

--- COMMENTS ---
[Comment by Stephen Robertson]: Grammar  –  hypothetical situations, desires, etc.  –  need to use the subjunctive  –   ie .  could  have been, were

[Comment by Stephen Robertson]: W atch the conjunctions  –  don ’ t just string together items with and  and   and …

[Comment by Stephen Robertson]: You ALWAYS make this mistake  –  as a verb,  “ to  loose ”  means to release, to unleash;  “ to lose ”  means to misplace, to be relieved of something
[Comment by Stephen Robertson]: Don ’ t underestimate  ol ’  Zeke.
[Comment by Stephen Robertson]: One word
[Comment by Stephen Robertson]: By  “ It ” , you mean the tale of the return, but the word that is actually pointed to here is  “ details ”  so it should be  “ them ”   –  watch your grammar.
