Mirtul 19, 1480: New moon. I believe this is the date that the Ritual of Transcendence was completed, with the aid of the Slave Orbs, turning much of the town into the shadow slaves that were later fought at the Battle. At this point, the entire farm was under complete control of the cult of Shar, and the Dark Garden. Goering, now a shadow-kind and priestess of Shar, was the ruler of the town in its new hellish form, though Belladonna was the head of the cult in the region. All but pre-pubescent children were converted into shadow slaves. The children were kept in a barn, and were slated to be sold to the Bloody Eye, a slaving and bandit outfit that the Dark Garden had employed/manipulated for nearly a decade. This never happened, thankfully. 

The 'transcendence' did not go smoothly. There was a resistance mounted against this ritual, and the entire town was thrown into a violent massacre of brother against brother. The terrible stories of this black day continue to be told by its survivors, and each new story brings a river of tears. 

Nearly a hundred adults in the farm seemed to have the same resistance to the powerful transcendence ritual as did the children; this included the entire clergy of Amaunatorians, as well as many in the Whitegate family. Those that resisted but were not killed in the massacre, were kept alive for an even fouler purpose a few days later. 

Mirtul 19-21, 1480: Belladonna unearths the bodies of the Fist mercenaries, interred beneath the three great cairns on the edge of the farm, using the labour of the shadow slaves.
