Compiled and written by Hrogan Goringrimm; priest of Ohgma and Fifth of The Monastery of Sundered Faith in 1477 DR.

==The Despair of the Boregar==

It was late spring in the year of 1374 when a trio of warriors left the complications and machinations of Waterdeep behind them. These three warriors had spent the last year battling evil that was threatening to overtake Waterdeep but had come to realize that you cannot help a populace that does not wish to be helped. Crestfallen but determined to move onto something useful, the three headed East. The Realms are a big place, with any number of warriors and wizards whose names will be permanently etched across the expanse of sky for all of time. These three men, however, were not spoken of in such a manner and had little aspiration to be recognized in such fashion. The first was Maturin Horgath, Champion of Ilmater, disheartened at his inability to assist his good friend, the Harper known as  Boregar the Wanderer. It was Boregar's sworn mission as a Harper to remove the dark elf influence and corruption in Waterdeep. As the war lengthened and the days drew on, however, Boregar, Maturin and their allies began to realize how little hope they had in succeeding with such a task. Boregar had taken increasingly to his cups and less to trying to get anything done, until one day, when the warriors had expected to plan their next assault on the drow menace, Boregar was nowhere to be found. Only later was it discovered that Boregar the Wanderer had lived up to his namesake and wandered north in a drunken stupor, brokenhearted over his seeming ineffectiveness to handle the task given him.

==Scion of Damara==
thumb|Maturin the Grey
For far too long, Maturin had selflessly put aside his own personal agenda to assist others with theirs. Despite being saddened by his good friend wandering off by himself he felt some burgeoning sparks of hope over the opportunity to return to his homeland of Damara, from which he had left in self-imposed exile. He had received word that his nefarious uncle, the debauched Duke William of Arcata, had at long last succumbed to his vices, and that his cousin Samovar - on all counts more vicious, vile and vindictive than his father - had taken the title of Ninth Duke of Arcata. Knowing that Gareth Dragonsbane, the King of Bloodstone, would be in need of allies to mitigate the abuses of his wayward kinsman, Maturin had once again turned his heart to the East. His morale was also buoyed by the thought of taking again to the road with old and faithful comrades in arms.

==Merchant Prince of Waterdeep==

Arkos \"Falcon\" Thunderstaff was an old comrade, whom Maturin had met in the Eastern Heartlands several years before, in the town of Elmwood. The two had crossed the Realms overland, in an ultimately fruitless mission to prevent the resurrection of the dread god Bane in the Year of the Unstrung Harp. The taverns of Waterdeep have witnessed many an ale-soaked debate over which of Falcon’s many talents he most excelled at: wooing the ladies, turning a profit from a dodgy deal as a trader, or his skill with a sword. Many held that it depended on the weather, the stars, and Falcon's mood but all could agree that if Falcon was about, it was best to keep an eye on your lady, your coin purse and your blade. Falcon never seemed to want for coin and although his finances were well in order and things were going quite well with the  estate, he had been heard muttering before he left with his good friend Maturin, \"If I hear one more thing about a thrice-cursed beholder, bloody drow or filthy Zhents... I'll burn this city down, myself.\" Maturin had seen such worries consume another companion – the inscrutable elf known as Steele – and, deciding that Falcon could do with a change of scenery and that he could use a warrior of Falcon’s mettle – convinced his old friend to take to the road again, and travel with him to his homeland. Never missing out on an opportunity to investigate potential trade routes, to say nothing of playing the \"good friend\", Falcon readily agreed to accompany Maturin.

==First of the Lady of Loss==

The two warriors were joined by another, more recent companion of Maturin’s: Gaebril Tremalkin, dragonslayer, one-time saviour of Loudwater, former Paladin of Selûne and now the \"First\" of . Gaebril was a grim-faced, dour man whom many found difficult to know, simply because he spoke little about himself and shared even less. Despite his dark faith and distant demeanour, however, through the experiences he had shared with the Ilmatari Paladin during the liberation of the trade routes of Anauroch and the deliverance of Daggerdale from the clutches of the , Gaebril had become ferociously protective of Maturin. It was not unheard of for the two disciples to take turns sermonizing and speaking to the common folk of aspects of Ilmater and Shar that many had never thought to see. In fact, it seemed that the only time Gaebril truly spoke with any manner of investment was when he addressed the public. So strong were his convictions and compelling his speech that it was rumoured that he had single-handedly planted the seed of Shar in Daggerdale that, even a century later, under the heavy hand of Amaunator's theocracy, there are still pockets of devoted Sharrans that follow the Dark Goddess because of the dark liberator of Daggerdale and not because of Netherese influence.

In the months that followed the Liberation, Gaebril had rarely strayed from Maturin's side. However, although he had seemed to be daily growing in strength and skill in combat since emerging from Anauroch with the other warriors of the , his appearance had grown noticeably paler and more sickly, and he had become prone to voicing dark mutterings in his sleep as well as when he thought he was alone. Although scholars disagree over whether such a thing might occur, it has been suggested by those that chronicled that time that Gaebril received some manner of spiritual or psychological bolstering simply through his proximity to a man as holy as Maturin Horgath. What it was that the First of Shar needed bolstering from is open for all manner of speculation by those interested in the subject.

== The Road Leads Ever East ==

The three men left the City of Splendours, well-equipped, well-supplied and eager to leave Waterdeep to its own demise. The journey proceeded without incident and although the three were not looking forward to another crossing of the sand seas of Anauroch, they nevertheless felt positive about their destination, and with their prior knowledge from crossing the desert they were sure they would make a better go of it this time around. They stopped in Loudwater to plan out their final stage of travel before entering Anauroch. Although Tremalkin looked quite different from the smiling, polite young man that he had been when he helped Loudwater free itself from the blighting influence of the fell necromancer Azmund, who terrorized the settlement years before, he was invariably recognized which earned the three warriors a free stay at the local inn as well as a \"bottomless\" tankard of ale; something for which Falcon expressed keen appreciation.

==The Grey Sword’s Voice==

While managing to plan their expedition despite constant interruptions from well-wishers the three men were approached one Corbin Delhaunte, an advisor to the High Lord of Loudwater, Nanathlor Greysword. Corbin was an elderly wisp of a man with piercing blue eyes. Though the warrior trio quickly appreciated that the old man wasn’t someone who was handy in a fight, his passionate speech nevertheless moved them powerfully, and played on the good natures of the religious warriors to convince them to lend their arms to “a small problem” that Loudwater was having.

As it turned out, an orc uprising in the nearby Graypeaks, though not yet a serious problem, was threatening to spread through the peaks – and even explode out of them – if something wasn't done soon. The heroes were asked to ride north to Murtaw's Watch; an old dwarven outpost which straddled a chokepoint in the Graypeaks. They were told that they would be able to speak to the Loudwater wardens stationed there and learn more of this orc uprising by the name of the Red Hand of Doom, and what could be done to stop them. Falcon didn't fail to take advantage of the situation and as \"payment\" for their attending to the orcs, he brokered a lucrative deal with the High Lord’s deputy regarding certain trading rights on the once again profitable trade route between Loudwater and Waterdeep, so recently liberated by his companions.

== The Red Plague ==

That the journey from Loudwater into the mountains was an unpleasant one for the heroes will be attested to by most individuals (who aren't dwarves) who have made the journey. Still, and therefore, perhaps, surprisingly, it went without incident. The Graypeaks are known to be a dangerous place and the three warriors were concerned by the fact that there had been no contact with anyone or anything. They were two days from Murtaw's Watch when they saw tendrils of smoke rising from the mountains ahead. Maturin, a veteran of the Bloodstone Wars in Damara and Vaasa, immediately recognized the source of the smoke as campfires – yet the fires were too numerous to be from the small group of defenders at Murtaw's Watch, but too orderly to be from the campfires of any unruly orc uprising. There was a disciplined army ahead, and it would be a race for the warriors to reach Murtaw's Watch first.

thumb|400px|The Red Hand of Doom
A rapid reconnaissance of the encampment, however, revealed that the army was indeed orcish, and their blood red banners identified them as the Red Hand of Doom – which Gaebril vaguely remembered as having once been a small band of orc brigands. Obviously something had changed. It seemed clear that Delhaunte had either purposefully understated the situation, or he had had very little understanding of just what was coming down out of the mountains. The valley where Murtaw's Watch was situated was the quickest and easiest way out of the southern border of the Graypeaks, and clearly the Red Hand of Doom were eager to get to the greener lands south of mountains. When the three warriors galloped their lathered mounts into Murtaw's Watch, the full scope of the distant army was revealed to them for the first time. It was as if Murtaw's Watch were a stone door, propped up to stop the oncoming rush of a tidal wave of epic proportions. At the gates of the keep, the three warriors were met with the haggard and hopeless wardens of Loudwater. Although the ancient dwarven outpost had stood in Helgorod valley for centuries the three warriors found the defenders of the outpost preparing to abandon it, head for Loudwater and hope for the best.

== The Defenders of Murtaw's Watch ==

There were one hundred and seven men and women defending that outpost and the army that was coming from the north already looked to outnumber the defenders ten or possibly twenty to one. With the arrival of the three warriors, the total number of defenders reached one hundred and ten, but their arrival did little to convince the panicking wardens to stay. Though anything but cowards, neighter Horgath nor Tremalkin felt there was ought to be gained from such a battle – save the useless deaths of a company of warriors better deployed in defense of Loudwater itself when the army invariably made its way out of the mountains. While the defenders spoke hastily with the two paladins, however, Falcon was wandering through the structure of Murtaw's Watch, his brow furrowed in thought. Just as the paladins and defenders had decided to begin loading carts with any salvage that could survive the journey back to Loudwater, Falcon scowled and shook his head. As his companions turned to him, dumbfounded, Falcon’s scowl disappeared, and he shot them the winning smile that had created one of the most successful trading costers in Waterdeep, then began to speak. \"This won't do. This is a sure bet, lads and lasses. Give me a moment to speak to the visitors that will be arriving soon. If you don't like the results of my discussion with them, then I'll be the first one out of here.\" The defenders were too weary, or perhaps surprised by Falcon’s sudden initiative to muster much of a response except a few, \"Whatever, you crazy sumbitch,\" or whispered, \"I think he's madder than th'paladins 'ere.\"

== Terms of Engagement ==

\"Excellent!\", exclaimed Falcon as he rubbed his hands together, as if to warm them before extending his hand to the Captain of Murtaw's Watch. \"We have a deal, Captain. No welching.\" Falcon proceeded to turn to his two companions, giving both of them a broad smile and speaking firmly. \"I'm going to head out and speak to our friends. You two ... stay.\" This earned him puzzled looks from the two paladins, which mirrored the confusion of the defenders of the outpost, but Falcon soon disappeared from sight, whistling a jaunty tune while he quickly moved down the stone steps of the ancient outpost. Tremalkin growled in irritation as he strode off in pursuit of Falcon, only to be held up by Horgath. \"I don’t pretend to know what he’s about, Gaebril, but Arkos Thunderstaff never makes a bet he can't win – or fight his way out of.\" Horgath was met with an arched eyebrow and a dubious look from Tremalkin but the two paladins joined the defenders at the walls of Murtaw's Watch even as Arkos Thunderstaff bold, confident and calm, strode from the outpost; a lone figure between outpost and orc host.

thumb|400px|Arkos Thunderstaff negotiates.

Thunderstaff looked quite small from where his companions and the defenders watched and Horgath was beginning to worry that he should have tried harder to convince Falcon to leave as they had originally planned. Falcon put two hands up to his mouth and cupped them around his lips and whistled sharply. The whistle echoing off the mountain walls and grew louder, loud enough to stop the front ranks of orcs from stomping their feet and thumping jagged-edged swords upon crude shields. He proceeded to shout something in orcish and the host arrayed before him grew silent. The silence seemed to stretch on for an eternity only to be answered by a volley of two arrows whistling out of the ranks of the orcs. One arrow fell short, while the other streaked through the air and coming startlingly close to Falcon's head only to pass over his shoulder and shatter against the stone walls of Murtaw's Watch. Falcon's eyes narrowed in irritation before shouting once more in orcish.

\"He's mad, that one.\" muttered one defender at the walls. \"He's lookin' to bargain with 'em.\"

The orc host was restless, their own quiet muttering amongst themselves sounded like a rumble against the rocky surface of the mountains that surrounded them. The was only one individual in Helgorod Valley that day that wasn't surprised when the orc host parted it's front ranks and a group of ten orcs approached. That man was Arkos \"Falcon\" Thunderstaff and he met the small cluster of ten orcs with a smile on his face.

An orc, easily two heads taller than Falcon seemed to be the one assigned to the delicate negotiations. He jabbed a spear in Falcon's direction and snarled, \"What you offer!\" in common. Falcon greeted the orc with an amicable smile, his hands held well clear from his steel as he spoke loudly in common for all to hear. \"That's easy, good sir! I offer you a chance to surrender. To leave now and go back to your holes and continue to live and breed in your own filth, for if you fail to do such, this valley will be your grave.\" He lifted a single eyebrow imperiously before giving the ten orcs a smug smile and speaking once more. \"Do you find these terms acceptable?\"

Falcon was met with a howl of fury and the ten orcs fell upon him in unison. Horgath and the defenders of Murtaw's Watch leaned against the wall in horror, unable to do anything but watch the slaughter of the madman. Tremalkin simply stood back, his arms crossed upon his breastplate with small but impressed smile upon his lips. As quickly as it took for the orcs to fall upon Falcon, soon the man was left alone once more, standing in a circle of ten dead orcs, wiping his blade clean on the furs worn by one orc before turning his back on the orc host. Sheathing his blade and shouting back over his shoulder, \"Perhaps on the 'morrow then!?\" Then the howling and the drumming began. Some were heartened by the display from Falcon, while others were simply more assured that Murtaw's Watch would be their own grave but the Captain kept his word and the one hundred and nine men and women, and one madman prepared to defend Murtaw's Watch from the army of The Red Hand of Doom.

== The Siege of Murtaw's Watch ==

The army had drawn closer that night, well within range to charge the defences on the following day and as the sun rose that morning, they were greeted by the sight of Falcon sitting out front once more. Smoking a pipe while seated on a stool with his legs stretched out and his feet resting on a grisly stack of two orc corpses. He tamped out his pipe as the howling orcs drew closer and he approached the host once more and once again asked for a chance to negotiate. Perhaps the warlord was dim, or perhaps the warlord enjoyed this game but half an hour later, another band of orcs was sent forth, numbering thirty rather than the ten and far more prepared for the negotiations to end in violence.

Falcon gave the orc host a chance to surrender and leave once again and the orcs refused his offer in their own manner. At the end of the negotiations, Falcon returned to Murtaw's Watch, a bit bloodier than when he started but his blade having felled another thirty orcs. The orcs seemed to be enjoying themselves and as they hooted and hollered, their feet stomping the valley floor and shaking the very outpost, they charged.

thumb|500px|The First Paladin of Shar enters the battle.
There was nothing beautiful or noble about the defense of Murtaw's Watch. Every warden of Loudwater fought as if their life and the lives of their families depended on it, because it did. Maturin Horgath with his wildly flowing grey hair, beard and barrel-chested charger was a merciless force of destruction amongst the orc ranks. It was said that at times more arrows were stuck in him than could be counted but somehow the man continued to fight and inspire with war-hymns, letting the defenders of Murtaw's Watch know that with great suffering and patience comes Ilmater's boon. Where Maturin Horgath's presence was inspirational, Gaebril Tremalkin's presence was terrifying to both foe and ally alike. He didn't bother with his sleek, ebony mount. He simply strode into the front ranks of the orc army, his cruel looking two-handed blade cutting through crude armour as easily as it cut through flesh. His black, spiked armour soon glossy with gore and with his indignant presence and ferocious blade, Gaebril held the entire left flank with four other wardens. While the two paladins fought in the thick of things, Falcon was busy behind the walls. Organizing defenses and sending out a handful of runners to give orders, watching from the walls and doing what he could to properly guide the defenders only to wade into the fight when able, bolstering morale all while giving the impression that this was little more than a tavern brawl.

The fighting continued all day, the orcs crashing upon the walls of the outpost relentlessly and where the defenders grew weary, the day ended with Tremalkin and Horgath back to back, laying waste to the orcs that swarmed around them. Each corpse dropped by Tremalkin's cruel blade momentary flickered with a strange purple energy only to course up the length of the blade and arc across his armour in purple sparks and tracers, while Horgath simply hacked away with his steel and battered with his shield. Where everyone else, including Tremalkin, was breathing heavily and soaked with sweat, Horgath was seemingly unaffected physically, his constitution proving to be unflagging.

Orc bodies as well as defenders of Murtaw's Watch covered the floor of the valley around the dwarven outpost and as the sun set, the drums of the orcs had stopped, horns were blown and what was left of the initial assault retreated. The Red Hand of Doom appeared to be in need of regrouping and a refocusing of effort while the two paladins busied themselves with pulling in the corpses of the defenders that had fallen in battle so that they might be given proper rites.

The days that followed were similar in some ways. Each morning, Falcon would greet the marauding host and give them a chance to surrender. The warlord would send another thirty warriors to do battle with the sole man and each day, Falcon would return to the outpost, more beaten and bloody than when he started but with a smile on his lips, assuring the wide-eyed, weary and stunned defenders of Murtaw's Watch, \"Any day now...they're more scared of us than we are of them. Any day now, lads.\" The paladins would continue to fight and a number of the defenders chosen to bear the brunt of the initial charge would perish. It was more than just orcs and clearly they had the support of someone or something that provided a number of ogres and giants to assist with the assault. It was the ninth straight day when a cyclops of all things had smashed and pounded its way through the defenders of the outpost. The walls, cracked and damaged from boulders being thrown with tremendous force were shuddering under the heavy blows of the giant, one-eyed aberration. Everywhere the cyclops looked, defenders were reduced to trembling, shuddering weaklings. Thus, it was all the more surprising when Falcon ran across the stone span that crossed the valley. Holding his sword like a javelin, he sprinted across the crumbling span, throwing himself from atop it to hurtle through the air towards the cyclops. The giant swung an open hand towards the reckless man as he flew through the air, falling rapidly. The giant missed its opportunity to catch and squash the warrior and with a cry of fury, Falcon plunged blade-first into the eye of the cyclops, disappearing in a cloud of fluid and blood. The cyclops let loose a howl of pain that shook the walls of the outpost and the valley. Falcon fell to the ground only to have the flailing, bleeding cyclops fall upon him and as the giant collapsed, the Red Hand of Doom retreated once more.

== The Long Night ==

It was the night of the ninth day of the seige of Murtaw's Watch and twenty-seven defender's remained. The valley north of the outpost reeked of blood, filth and rotting corpses and even the orcs were beginning to find it unpleasant to assault the outpost for the last three days. All of the defenders were exhausted, resigned to the fact that they were going to die here and Tremalkin's words of encouragement consisted of, \"...but at least you will die well and at that point, the Dark Goddess will ensure that you no longer remember the pain and loss of your previous life.\" He appeared to be somewhat surprised when the responses he received were less than favourable. Falcon, a man that clearly wasn't godly like his two companions but clearly had the favour of the gods was in rough shape. The previous nine days had taken their toll and having a giant cyclops fall upon him had even the confident and positive Falcon admitting that he had \"...taken a few lumps.\"

That night, it seemed like things had grown more favourable at the orc warcamp as the drums pounded with a newly found vigour. Watchers on the walls could see silhouettes of more giants joining the force and there was a loud, shrill cry of something enormous circling repeatedly over the heads of the defenders on the walls of Murtaw's Watch. Where things were decidedly worse for the defenders, it seemed that things had improved for the orc army and the massive losses they had taken seemed to be off little concern considering the new additions to their force. Battered, bruised and limping badly; Falcon rallied all of the defenders that night and told them they needed to flee. \"I'm afraid I put my foot right in this time, lads. The three of us will stay back and hold them for as long as we're able. All of you have done an admirable job and there's no way these buggers are rolling out of the mountains now with an unstoppable army.\" Horgath and Tremalkin simply looked to one another as they stood behind Falcon, silently nodding their heads to one another in silent respectful acknowledgement before turning back to the remaining defenders and doing their part to encourage the surviving men and women to retreat.

== The Tenth Day Dawns ==

The sun rose on the tenth day with Falcon once more seated upon his stool, his feet resting upon the last barrel of ale from Murtaw's Watch and drinking deeply from a chipped tankard. Sunlight glinted off the armour of Maturin the Grey as he stood atop the span of Murtaw's Watch, the wind pulling at his long hair and beard, his steel and shield held in either hand. Gaebril Tremalkin, First of Shar stood between both towers, almost exactly beneath Maturin, silently waiting in the shadows of Murtaw's Watch, foregoing the opportunity to wear his helm, his pale skin looking even more pale in contrast to his gleaming black armour and faint purple energy trailing from his black eyes.

\"Last chance!\" shouted Falcon, not even bothering to get up, teetering slightly while seated upon his stool as he leaned forward to pull the cork on the barrel and let more ale pour out, sloshing over the chipped rim of the tankard. \"Leave now and you can be mounting your prettiest orc girl in your own hovel within a few days.\"

The rising of the sun had revealed the additions to what was left of the orc army. Two enormous rocs circled overtop the outpost, while what was left of the orc army leered out from behind well over a score of haphazardly armoured hill giants. When the hill giants parted to allow whomever it was the warlord was sending to do battle with Falcon that day, it was the warlord himself to come charging forward from amongst the ranks. His heavy two-handed axe was brandished over his head and with a furious, triumphant howl he covered the distance between himself and the injured, weary Falcon and swung his axe. The head of the axe shattered the keg that Falcon had been resting his feet upon even as he rolled smoothly away from the orc warlord's onslaught. The warlord was massive compared to Falcon and it was all the man could do to stay out of the sweeping steel that the orc swung relentlessly. It was during that fight when the hill giants charged. Tremalkin simply drew a line in the blood-soaked ground and stood behind it, steeling himself for the charge from the hill giants. Horgath was running across the span to get to the stairs and assist his brother-in-arms when the rocs swooped down to attack him.

All three heroes were busy and what was left of the orc army stayed back and howled and cheered. Falcon was in a deadly dance with the orc warlord, Tremalkin was using deft footwork and his ferocious blade to harry the hill giants who seemed more adept at getting in each other's way than actually causing harm to the paladin of Shar, and Horgath was doing his best to avoid the monstrous beaks and talons of the giant rocs that were harrying him. Despite the forces arrayed against them, the three heroes continued to fight and never considered retreating and for a moment as the warlord grew tired, three hill giants littered the ground at the base of the outpost and one roc shrieked in pain as it lost two talons.

== The Tide Turns Twice ==

It was as if whatever gods had been watching over the three up until this point had collectively turned away from the men. Falcon had been caught by a vicious kick to his gut, stumbled over a corpse and fell onto his back, all while the warlord howled in triumph and raised its mighty axe above its head to finish the fight. Tremalkin had slipped on the blood that coated the ground where he stood and caught a direct blow in the chest from a steel-shod club that was nearly as big as he was. The blow sent out a massive clang and the paladin literally flew through the air and crashed against the outer wall of the outpost and slumped to the ground, all while the most distressing thing occurred up above. Horgath had been battling the flying beasts as best he could, avoiding their talons and beaks as the swooped at him in turns, battering him with the wind from their massive wings but the previous nine days had taken their toll even on the Chosen of Ilmater. He failed to move quite as quickly as he needed to and in an eye blink, he was grasped in the cruel talons of one roc, the beak of the other roc snapping savagely at the struggling paladin and even as the Chosen of Ilmater hacked away at both beasts, both rocs and their captive flew up into the air until they could no longer be seen.

The heroes of Helgorod had done what they could to slow down the Red Hand of Doom and now it looked as if it was time for the orc army to have their chance to do what they had originally intended. Falcon, indignant to the very end spat out a gobbet of blood and shouted from where he was sprawled upon the ground. \"Now is your chance to walk away rather than being carried away!\" His smirk never faltered even as he patiently waited for the orc to drive home it's axe when the moment was interrupted by the blowing of a horn and a loud cheer came from south of the outpost. The defenders of Murtaw's Watch had returned, unwilling to leave the three heroes to certain death. The warlord hesitated as he saw the defenders return which was enough time for Falcon to slip out of the way and get to his feet once more.

== Hail the Heroes of Helgorod ==

\"Tremalkin!\" Shouted, Falcon. \"We NEED you!\" Falcon menacingly gripped his blade and began his dance with the warlord once more all while the hill giants continued to batter at the fallen paladin of Shar. Tremalkin's hand slowly moved out to grip his black-bladed sword once more and a purple aura surrounded his body as he laid upon the ground being stomped upon and hammered by gleeful hill giants. Tremalkin slowly began to stand, shrugging off blows from the giants that would have crushed a normal man. His eyes were as black as the battered armour that he wore and as the defenders of Murtaw's Watch charged from the south, the remainder of the orc army charged from the north and the slaughter began once more. The fighting was desperate and vicious with no mercy given and none asked. Falcon continued to battle the warlord while Tremalkin slaughtered hill giant and orc with equal ease, the blade he was wielding leaving behind a wispy trail of black and purple smoke with each swing he took.

A little over a score of men and dwarves battled the hundreds of orcs in Helgorod pass that day with the expectation that every orc they killed would be one less to hurt their families back in Loudwater. There was no hope for a victory and simply the acceptance that they were all going to die when things took a sudden turn. Something plunged from the sky with frightening speed and smashed onto the orcs in the back ranks, waiting their turn for battle. It was one of the giant rocs that had disappeared earlier with Horgath, its skull nearly cleaved in two and its massive, bloody form having killed over a score of orcs when it had fallen from the sky. The back ranks of the orc army was still trying to come to grips with what just happened when a horrific shriek was heard. Looking up, they saw the second roc, careening towards the span that stretched between the towers on either side of the pass. The Chosen of Ilmater, Maturin the Grey was atop the roc, gripping the thick feathers of the beast with one hand while repeatedly plunging his blade into the neck of the giant bird that had carried him up into the sky. The roc struck the pass, shattering the stone work and sending stones and debris hurtling through the air while the momentum of the dying roc carried it over the front of the battle and into the madly scrambling back ranks of the orcs. The warlord, distracted by the spectacle that had just gone on above his head shortly thereafter had his head removed from his shoulders from a vicious backswing from Falcon's blade. With giant birds falling from the sky upon them, a black armoured demon that won't die no matter how many times he's clubbed or stabbed and their warlord dead, the Red Hand of Doom routed on the tenth day of their assault on Murtaw's Watch. Eleven men and three dwarves survived the battle and vowed to pass on the tale of Maturin the Grey; Chosen of Ilmater, Gaebril Tremalkin; First of Shar and last although never least, the bold words and actions of Arkos \"Falcon\" Thunderstaff.

The three men thought that their work was done in the Graypeaks. Saving the lowlands from an orc invasion is no small feat but it seems they were fated to stay in the Graypeaks longer still, all which will be revealed in the second part of my chronicling of this tale.

category:Spellgard Narratives
