The story so far ...
-----

== Tarsakh, 1372 - Emissaries of the Triad ==

A Crusader of Torm, Reverend Messenger William Moorstone and his advisor Malerix of the Moonshaes, a follower of the Holy Triumvirate (Torm, Tyr, Illmater) have been sent by leaders of the Holy Triumvirate to deliver a message to High Battle Chaplain Gordon Stakaria of Tempus in the city of Archenbridge.

The Elders of the Triumvirate feel that a great battle is coming. The unabated growth of humanoid hordes in the Storm Horn Mountains and the Goblin Marches is reaching critical levels. It seems that they are more focused, more organized. It is unlikely that they have stumbled upon this themselves, and perhaps a leader has risen to the task to unite the hordes. The Elders feel that in the upcoming battle, the assistance of Tempus would be wise. With this they sent one of their most inexperienced, but most promising young crusaders, William Moorstone, to deliver their request for assistance from Stakaria, a man that the God of Battles surely respects. That young man, with his appointed advisor Malerix carries the hopes of the Sword Coast, and the Dales.

* 12th of Tarsakh – Malerix and William leave Baldur’s Gate for Archenbridge.
* 16th of Tarsakh – Malerix and William become lost in Hullack forest, venturing slightly off course they travel east hoping for some sign of where they might be.
* 19th of Tarsakh – Malerix and William have been found by a ranger named Ellendil. Ellendil was hired out of Highmoon a few days earlier by the temple of Tyr. 

They dispatched him with the order to find Malerix and William, and escort the two of them to Archenbridge, and prevent any more mishaps. Upon finding them, weary and lost, but trying to put on a brave face, Ellendil decides that it would be best to travel to White Ford to restock with supplies and let the two travelers get their bearings.

== 11 Tarsakh - Diggs' Deputies ==

Odin Tallhollow, Winger Shingleton, and Phaeton Shingleton, all Highdale Deputies, leave the Highdale to search for a missing party of deputies who’s last know whereabouts was an old abandoned mining camp that Highdale deputies use as an outpost. The old camp is found in the south-eastern range of the Thunder Peaks.

Sheriff Diggs of Highdale dispatched the three deputies to find a recon party that went missing 10 days ago. A message was received just a day ago. All deputies’ badges are magical and can send a short message. Depending on distance, the message will take a day or two to reach headquarters in Highdale. The message read as follows, “Ambushed 10 miles west of White Ford. Drow on a black…” The message was cut off because only eleven words can be transmitted per day.

The three deputies were to follow the same route that the previous party took, check the logbook at the mining camp, and investigate further, but not to engage any enemies, only to find out what happened.

The hike through the Thunder Peaks had a few strange moments for the three deputies. Three nights during the trip they heard strange sounds as if a beast was in pain. Odin was sure it was a bear making the sound, but due to the echoes in the mountains they could not discern where it was coming from. Another strange thing was that one night during a bad storm, the three were sure they saw a large black horse high up on a ridge with a figure sitting on it, but due to the darkness, and the storm, and the distance, they couldn’t make out any more details, and with that the “horse and rider?” moved away into the darkness. And finally, although not that strange, more unsettling to say the least, Nevalarich; an ancient red dragon was spotted flying over their heads. Nevalarich is rumored to have a lair in the Thunder Peaks somewhere, and hasn’t been seen in twenty years. She seemed to be feeling all right after such a long sleep. She was deftly carrying a small ship in both claws, and Winger swore he saw somebody jump over the edge. Taking their chances with the fall to the rocky peaks below than with the ancient red wyrm.

They arrived at the mining camp, and indeed, the recon party had logged their arrival a week earlier. They also noted how they had been following a cloaked rider on a large black horse. They noted that they had been careful and were sure that the rider was unaware of their presence. The rider had gone north into the foothills, and they hoped to follow at daylight the next day. Of note, the camp was in shambles, with halfling tracks everywhere, as well as bear tracks. Also a great deal of blood was lost by someone or something, for a great deal was soaked into the ground and splashed across one side of a rock cut. That night, the three deputies once again heard the death knells of a beast off in the distance.

== 19 Tarsakh – The Threads Are Woven ==

Odin, Winger and Phaeton leave camp to follow the missing recon party’s trail north to the foothills of the Thunder Peaks. Following a cold, unnamed river that flows out of the mountains and eventually merging with the river Arkhen.

Approaching dusk on the 19th, the three deputies happen to a crossing of the unnamed river. With shrub brush all around them, and cliffs as well, the only was to cross is what once used to be a huge tree, that has fallen over, spanning the 25’ of cold, churning rapids beneath. The tree is close to 8’ wide, and although not a surface one would want to do a jig on, it is well worn with decades of use when the mining camp south of the river was in operation. The downside is that the churning water tends to make the surface slippery as water is thrown into the air. Ahhhh, the wilderness. The deputies, concerned about their ponies, tether them to a dying tree, and approach the bridge to see if they can get their ponies across with a minimum of trouble.

At the very same time, Ellendil is gathering wood for himself and his two companions camp for the evening. His keen eyes spot what appears to be four humanoids crouched behind boulders that flank a large tree that now appears to be a makeshift bridge of sorts. The very same bridge that the three deputies are approaching...

Ellendil crept closer, squinting to make out some details in the dying light. The four figures crouched were still large. Three of them looking like orcs, but their skin had a reddish hue, and they seemed much more muscular than the orcs he’s ever seen. The fourth he recognized right away ... a bugbear. A battle was coming…

=== A Battle is Joined ===

The battle occurred needless to say. On the south side of the river, Malerix, Ellendil, and William combated the three red orcs, the bugbear, and a lean, exceedingly clever orc with jet-black skin who seemed to appear out of nowhere and harass them with throwing daggers. On the north side, Winger was assaulted by yet another black orc with a hand crossbow no less. Odin was assaulted by three human brigands, and a short woman in a plain grey dress, who soon revealed herself to be a magic user. Phaeton stood at the foot of the bridge yelling at Odin and his brother Winger that there were too many, and they need to retreat. Odin actually fought off all three brigands, wounding two, and making all three retreat until the woman yelled at the fleeing men, “The wolf will not be pleased to hear about your bravery gentlemen.” This had an odd, yet immediate effect on the men, who turned with grim faces and approached Odin once again. Odin cut one down immediately, and stubbornly fought the remaining two brigands and the mage, while Winger fled from the black orc and joined Phaeton on the bridge. Both deputies were crossing the bridge, yelling for Odin to join them when Winger slipped on the slick wood, and tumbled off the bridge. Phaeton acting quickly grabbed his younger brother’s arm, straining to keep him from tumbling into the swirling water below.

At that point, the brothers exchanged words, and then Winger’s face became red and contorted with rage. Dangling by one arm, Winger grabbed his short sword with his other hand, and viciously slashed at Phaeton’s face while screaming. “I knew it! I had looked away for fear of what I might find, but now I see! LIAR! VILE TRAITOR!” Phaeton reacting on instinct recoiled from the attack, releasing his brother, while Winger tumbled into the cold, black river, with tears on his face, screaming curses at Phaeton until he disappeared under the roar of the water.

Odin, in horror of what just happened, retreated from his enemies to join Phaeton with the brigands and black orc chasing him. Phaeton and Odin had almost reached the end of the bridge when two more brigands rolled off a ledge above them. With ropes attached to their midriffs, they swung down like wrecking balls, trying to strike the two halflings. Both men missed the deputies by inches, but Phaeton, dropping to avoid the attack, injures himself. Phaeton insists that Odin flee, because he cannot follow, having twisted his knee.

=== The Other Party ===

Odin leaves his comrade swearing to come back for him, having spotted Ellendil, and recognizing him as an acquaintance. He turns back to see more brigands approaching from the other side of the bridge, as well as the female mage at the lead of the procession. Furthermore, about two hundred yards down river, he thinks he sees what might be some sort of net or obstruction in the river. Wanting to investigate, but with more brigands chasing him, he flees with Ellendil. The two meeting up with an injured William and his unconscious advisor Malerix, who prefers to bare-knuckle box muscle-bound orcs rather than use spells on them.

It turns out the battle on the other side was just as heated. Ellendil had riddled them with arrows as they charged him, his first target, a red orc, thinking one arrow will do, but the beast charged on taking four of his best shots before dropping. Slightly worried, but bolstered by his two charging companions, he took one more shot at the bugbear, and then diving for cover as the grinning black orc barely missed him with a throwing knife. William and Malerix charging in on their horses seemed to do little to impress the humanoids. Malerix attempted use his quarterstaff as a lance, and strike the huge bugbear. The bugbear, more agile than it looked sidestepped and struck the horse with a terrible cracking blow to its ribs, collapsing the horse, and tossing Malerix to the rocky ground. William had his eyes on the sneaking black orc, but had no luck as the black orc hooted delightedly every time he placed a large boulder between himself and the charging crusader. William finally had to give up and rescue his dazed advisor who was now surrounded by two red orcs, and a bugbear. Ellendil went after the bugbear, successfully injuring it, but then getting smashed in the chest by it’s monstrous club, knocking him to the ground, and the air out of his lungs. Malerix bravely balled a fist and swung at a charging red orc, having it blocked, and then being driven into unconsciousness when the orc smashed it’s forehead into Malerix’s face. A squishy, popping sound filled the air as Malerix’s nose blossomed in an explosion of blood. The orc grinning happily, raising its remarkably high quality blade to slash the helpless mage, only to find it’s skull bashed open by the charging William. The bugbear, content to bash the life out of Malerix’s dying horse gave William enough time to kill the other red orc. The black orc left as quickly as it appeared, leaving William to do battle with the bugbear. The Tormite eventually besting the humanoid, and Ellendil gingerly getting to his feet, spotted the rapidly approaching Odin, and decided that discretion might be the better part of valour at this point.

Odin having lost two deputies, as well as his pony, and most of his equipment was furious. Ellendil once again stated that White Ford would be their best bet for supplies and rest, and the three others agreed.

=== 19-20 Tarsakh - White Ford ===

After the battle at the bridge, Malerix, William, Ellendil, and Odin see bright lights on the northern escarpment where the Arch Wood is. The lights went of for about an hour as they traveled north, and then stopped just as suddenly as they started.

Still dark but past midnight, they arrived at White Ford, greeted by grim faces and double the normal guard. There they learned that a Ride (an Archendale force of 60 armed soldiers on horseback) failed to return two nights hence. The exhausted party was allowed to enter under a strict warning to not be at the business end of any trouble lest they be dealt with under extreme prejudice. Inside the walls, they found a paladin of Tyr waiting for them. He introduced himself as Ramagar of Highmoon, from the Abbey of the Just Hammer. He was sent by the Rightful Arbiter Menkau to accompany William in his delivery. Ramagar had arranged lodging for them, and the thankful adventurers finally got to rest their heads.

The next morning they were awoken by a commotion outside. It seems that two soldiers from the missing Ride had arrived on lathered horses. One was unconscious on his horse; his leg looking like it had been ripped off at the hip, the other looking pale and weak. His skin hanging off him in folds as if he had aged a hundred years since he left White Ford. They were taken to The Righteous and Inscrutable Silver Officer of the Scales Drax, a priest of Tyr who helps the town of White Ford in its daily problems.

The man with one leg less than what he had left with was dead. Though he might have been alive when strapped to the horse, the loss of blood and the ride finished him off. The other man looked like he was getting worse as each second passed. All he could do was cough which caused some green spittle to cover his lips and weakly gasp before he died, “Black death ... Drow ... on a ...” With that, the man’s body began to crumble and flake away until all that was left was a pile of dust vaguely resembling a man. Needless to say Drax tried to keep this quiet but word got out as it always does, and soon the citizens were terrified, and very few people in White Ford got any sleep that night.

== 21 Tarsakh - What the Sword Said ==

The next morning the bells at Arkhenor were rung, signifying a town meeting. The citizens, as well as the party, were met by The Red Sword himself. (The Red Sword is one of the three rulers of Archendale, the other two being The Blue Sword, and The Black Sword) The Red Sword explained that due to the unexplained danger that has presented itself, no citizens will be allowed to leave White Ford until another Ride arrives five days hence. The citizens were outraged, mostly merchants, and particularly the merchants of the Darkwater Brand Trading Co. The party was troubled as well, and William, desperate to fulfill his duty spoke with The Red Sword after the townsfolk had left. The Red Sword parlayed the party’s freedom to leave if they would go to the northern escarpment, and investigate. William gave his word that he and his fellows would return with the information, and then be on their way.

The party is escorted out of White Ford through a series of underground tunnels. The party left their horses in White Ford because the horses were not suitable for the tunnels.

== 22 Tarsakh – A Grisly Find ==

The party reaches the top of the escarpment, and finds the tracks of the Ride. Following them north to the Arch Wood, they find a grisly sight.

Following the tracks of the missing Ride, they discover a bloody area. Various human, and horse parts are scattered throughout a 100’ area. The parts look to have been ripped and severed as well as the flesh being strangely melted. Ellendil, spotting many of what appears to be large, grey almonds, about eight inches in length. Ellendil proceeded to cut one open, a green, oily fluid seeped out, accompanied by a noxious green gas that caused him to choke considerably. At this moment, a deep, numbing buzzing sound filled all the ears, the party slightly nervous soon spotted large, shiny black insects burrowing out of the earth, as well as a large pile of body parts, most likely the center of the carnage. The insects had blood red eyes, and shiny black scales. Coupled with their ability to spit acid, the adventurers had a fierce battle in store for them, and they fought with them until all the insects lay broken and still. Upon closer examination of the large pile of human and horse corpses, they spotted many more of the almond like items in the pile. Taking them for eggs, the party decided to light the pile on fire. Gathering wood, and gagging from the stench of the corpses, and the stinging fumes from the shattered black insects, they eventually got a roaring fire going, making a thick, oily smoke drift into the sky. The party making their way into the edge of the Arch Wood in order to rest and just get away from the flies, and all the blood, turn around in wonder when the ground begins to shake, and a deep buzzing once again fills there ears.

Each member of the party stares in horror as an enormous ankheg explodes out from under the burning, bloody pile of flesh and eggs. Ellendil has seen ankhegs before, but none this size ... its head has to be 20’ wide, and covered in shining black scales. Furthermore between it’s two cloudy green eyes, the size of large shields was a third eye. A deep crimson in colour with a black pupil that opened and closed spasmodically. The abomination let out an unearthly roar that shook the trees the party was hiding in, and then it began to feed on the front half of horse it had earlier torn in half.

Afraid and in shock, the party ventured deeper into the forest, wanting to be as far away from that beast as possible, but also realizing for the first time that there was not sixty corpses out there ... thirty ... maybe forty, but definitely not sixty. Where was the rest of the ride? Determined, they searched the southern edge of the forest looking for the unmistakable tracks of a group of men on horseback. They eventually found tracks but it seemed it was tracks left by the Ride leaving the forest rather than entering it, but the party followed the trail determined to find some answers as to what happened. 

=== Watcher in the Wilds ===

That evening they happened across a clearing. Ellendil growing frustrated by the feeling that they had been watched all day, moves off into the forest to see if he can find this “watcher” he thinks is there. The clearing smelled of charcoal, and burnt wood. There were extremely large circles of charred foliage, and some of the trees were still smoking. Also of note were large patches of grey, withered plants and trees, as well as dead field mice, rabbits and birds, all withered and emaciated. Also of note was a large square patch, about 20’ by 20’ that appeared to be completely flattened as if a wall had dropped there and pressed into the soft forest soil. Needless to say the party was confounded by this, but all agreed that this was most likely the place where all those strange lights had come from a few days earlier. 

In his search Ellendil had found more tracks: what looked to be like a great deal of horseman arriving from the west. As well as a great deal of orcish prints arriving from the east, but also leaving to the east. By following them about a mile into the forest to the east, the party discovered by reading the tracks that the orcs most likely took a great deal of the soldiers prisoner, with the remaining soldiers fleeing to get help, and being unfortunate enough to run into the black ankheg. Emboldened and excited at the prospect of helping the captive Riders, they venture further into the forest to the east.

=== An Unwelcome Reunion ===

At one point their tracks split ... a small group leaving north, and the much larger group leaving east. The party presses on to the east. Eager to find something concrete, as well as ending this long day. It is late at night when the tired party is ambushed. They are confronted by eight red orcs, three of which armed with man-catchers, also the female mage they had encountered days before, the two black orcs they also recognize, and an enormous red orc who carries what would be a huge two-handed sword as easily as if it were a long sword. The party fought bravely, and at one point it seemed all was lost for them, Ellendil sheared an arrow off the face of one of the black orcs, causing the other to pick up it’s fallen comrade and run off into the forest. Ellendil also drove off three other red orcs, while Odin chased the mage into the forest only to lose her in the darkness. William and Ramagar manged to get free of the man-catchers, and were wrestling on the ground with three of the red orcs in an ugly brawl while the large orc, chuckled harshly enjoying to watch the melee. Odin and Ellendil closed in on the huge orc, Ellendil tried arrows, but the orc blocked them with its large shield. The battle was fierce but quick, with the strong fiend only getting two clumsy swipes at Odin, and Ellendil, before Odin expertly hamstringed it. With the orc on one knee, Ellendil plunged his blade through the back of the orc as Odin slashed open it’s throat.

== When Last We Left Our Heroes ... ==

At that point, Ramagar, Odin, William, Malerix, and Ellendil are deep in the Arch Wood, tired, and injured, and running low on food.  It is the 22nd of Tarsakh, just a little after midnight. The black orcs have fled to the northeast as well as the mage, the red orcs fleeing to the north.
