==The Whitegates==
The massacre at Liberty Hill was an unprecedented blow to the Whitegate family. It is not even rivalled by the massacre of 1 Kythorn, 1455. Both of Lumina’s siblings, Lumen and Luminosus, as well as her cousin Lucidus, were fed to the Ritual of Corruption, dying unthinkable deaths. Her mother, Lanya (Forester) was found in the chapel, and had clearly been the object of the cruellest and vilest entertainments for the monsters that held the place; her body did not endure her torments, and we pray daily that her soul is intact. The fates of the children of Lucidus and Sarah Forester, who were two, three, and five years at the time, cannot be reported in detail. They are dead, and that is enough. Various other cousins, aunts and uncles were likewise killed, so that as Lumina mounted the walls during the battle, she was the only living Whitegate in the town. She was soon joined by her uncle, Bishop Blaze Whitegate, as his unit stormed down the concourse. These are the only two Whitegates to spend so much as one night at Liberty Hill since that dreadful day.

Her grandfather, Argent and her great-uncle, Luminous both survived the war on the western front. Tales of their bravery during the long siege at the edge of Netheril are numerous and inspiring. Luminous was every inch a hero, and during those days he moved with such vigour that one could presume he was in the springtime of life again. I personally watched him take stairs two-a-stride in his full-plate armour with great alacrity. However, when the two men came to their ancestral home after the war wrapped up, and saw what had happened, both were again reduced to old men.

Though never diminished in bearing, influence or good judgement, both men now visibly wear their years. Argent remains the Zenith Lord of Daggerdale, and he continues to carry out the duties of his office without any noticeable deficit, despite his losses. Luminous continues to be Lord of Castle Radiance and Grand Master of the Order of the Lambent Shield, two roles he carries out with the same diligence that he has long been known for. He is aloof, now, however. He is almost never seen below the Inner Bailey of the Castle, and he has not returned to Liberty Hill since the sentencing of Belladonna.
The bulk of the survivors of the Whitegate family are now found at Foothills Farm as Thunderstorms, and at Tesh Valley Farm as Blackmanes. There are not presently any children with the name Whitegate, and Lumina is the only child-bearing possibility. But, I get ahead of myself, and betray my own metropolitan proclivities; the people of Daggerdale do not have the same notion of families that we have lived with here in Waterdeep, and I should dispense with any notion that there are hereditary claims to be made for any positions of governance by the Thunderstorms and Blackmanes; those two families do indeed have such roles, but they are well earned and well kept.
==The White Cloaks==
The White Cloaks were changed dramatically after the Saints Battle. All fourteen active members of the company stormed the walls of Liberty Hill during that battle, some as a small and elite unit to infiltrate the fort quickly, others as leaders of platoons of Sun Blades, Militia, and volunteers. All survived bodily, though for some, their story with the White Cloaks ended that day.

Lumina handed over the company to her friend and colleague (in both Faith and Arms), Iolus Warburton. She has had no active part of the White Cloaks since that time, though I can personally attest to the fact that her cloak remains hanging on the back of her door in her little cottage up at Liberty Hill.

The tale of Magistrate Harbaugh has already been touched upon. He was granted office immediately after the battle, by Bishop Whitegate, and has maintained that office dutifully and to the betterment of the farm (see ‘Liberty Hill Farm’, below) ever since.

Tuugan Swift retired from the ranks in the winter of 1480. He was never the same after his sortie to the Shadowfell, nor his narrow escape from the farm on the reconnaissance of Mirtul 26, 1480, though he soldiered on through the Saints Battle and many other smaller engagements through until the winter. He was never able to face Lumina, though, after their excursion into the Shadowfell the year before. I am privy to some of Lumina’s secrets, and though I will keep them as promised, I can say that Lumina and Tuugan shared a terrible experience together in the Darkness; they both carry a great guilt about what happened in there, and are unable to forgive themselves for what they did to each other.

In early Uktar, Tuugan and Alystair concluded some business at Crossed Blades Farm. Alystair announced that he would be going to see his friends at Liberty Hill, but Tuugan declined to accompany him. His reasons were two-fold; he could not face Lumina, but he had also become involved with a young lady named Milli Oakdale. This devout Chauntean (indeed, daughter of the Cultivar of the farm) is the younger sister of a man named Brag Oakdale, who Tuugan led over the walls of Liberty Hill. Brag had introduced his captain to his sister at the Castle Gate Inn, and things fell into place for the couple. As I write this, I have just seen Tuugan, having been to the Castle Gate, and though he is quiet, he is happy; Milli is due to deliver their first child any day now, and Tuugan is serving drinks at the Inn to make up for his young wife, whom he will not allow to work. Tuugan does not keep much company besides his new family these days; Alystair periodically drops in, but Tuugan has not sought out any of his old friends. Nor, since the 1st of Kythorn, 1480, has he set foot within the walls of Liberty Hill. Alystair tells me, in confidence, that Tuugan has spent many nights patrolling the dark forest surrounding Liberty Hill Farm, unknown to the residents he protects.

The White Cloaks continue to operate effectively under the leadership of Iolus. The current details of the company, including roster and ranks, I will append to this report.

What is important to note is that the company was well rewarded for their efforts in the Saints Battle. Luminous met with Iolus at the Yellow Abbey after the sentencing of Belladonna in 1840. I was on hand at the time, and was asked to notarize an agreement between these two men. Luminous handed over possession of Loedegan Close to the White Cloaks, providing them with a base of operations within the walls of Town. The Close was slated to be sold to the Redjacks mercenary company, but after the leadership of the White Cloaks in the Saints Battle, Luminous wanted to reward them. Presently, Loedegan Close acts as a second base of operations for the White Cloaks, and there seems to be much activity there much of the time.

I would add that I feel as though the gift of the Close was something of a closure for the Whitegates. I think Luminous was happy to be free of this relic from a previous era;  a time when his family was growing and prospering. With there being little hope that his name would live another generation, pride gave way to necessity.

I would also add that the gift of the Close was something of an injury to the Redjacks. There was already no small amount of bad blood between the Redjacks and the White Cloaks (indeed, between the Redjacks and pretty much every professional soldier in the region) before the gift, but afterwards, animosity and acrimony on the part of the Redjacks was all but enough to have them exiled from Dagger Dale.

The White Cloaks continue to steward White Cloak Tower up at the Castle.

==Liberty Hill Farm==

The story of Liberty Hill Farm after Kythorn 1, 1480 is one of prosperity mixed with sadness.  It also marks a new phase in the openness of the Church in the dale, and a new phase of demographic transition.

After Banitt gave his moving speech after the Battle, and was invested by Bishop Whitegate, a flood of immigration came almost immediately to the farm.  On the day he took the mantle of Magistrate, Banitt presided over a village of 225 souls, most of whom were orphans.  As I write this now, the population of Liberty Hill Farm is nearly 2000!  Banitt, long known as the ‘Pilgrim’, declared that he was directed by Amaunator to come to come to Daggerdale, and to fight her enemies.  He was given the Blade of the White Saint to battle the Dark Garden, and he was meant to stay in the ruined village of Liberty Hill to bring a new light to the darkness that had taken it.  His version of this story is much more eloquent and compelling.

There was a tremendous amount of work to do to clean up the village, much less start rebuilding.  But before a tenday passed after the battle, the pilgrims started showing up; first, migrants from nearly every farm in the dale arrived.  Later, farmers and workers from the surrounding dales came.  And before the snows came, and in the spring and summer after they left, pilgrims from distant lands arrived.  They all came on pilgrimage to see the Blade, and to get a blessing from the Pilgrim Magistrate of Liberty Hill.  Many stayed.  I would guess that several thousand pilgrims have come through Liberty Hill since that time, and as I have mentioned, enough have stayed on that the place is the second-most populated area in the region, behind the town of Dagger Falls itself.

The cathedral at Liberty Hill is now very richly adorned; it has received gifts and donations from every corner of Faerun.  However, the centrepiece to the place is the relic of which Banitt is now the life-long steward: the Blade of the White Saint.  This sword simply lies on an altar in the nave of the Cathedral; anyone can just walk up and touch it, or even pick it up.  Indeed, Magistrate Harbaugh is often there to thrust it into the hands of the pilgrims that have come to see it.  He assures me that the blade is quite safe and secure, and I am obliged to trust in him, though I can’t for the life of me divine what protections he has in place, beyond good will and the forbearance of travellers.

The Tower of Liberty Hill, and the Table of the Sun that sits atop it, were given to the village as a public property by Lumina Whitegate.  She told me once that she could not bear to live in the place without her brother, sister, cousins and all the children running around.  It is just as well; the Tower has been turned into a public house, with a significant number of rooms that can be rented by pilgrims, for whatever they can pay (or not).  The upper level has been used to accommodate Magistrate Invictus, and the dozens of Sun Blades that have been added to the defence of the village.  These Sun Blades are from the new 10th Company, “Shadow Sentinels”, and are specially trained to deal with very dangerous and cunning enemies.

Today, Liberty Hill Farm is a bustling and prosperous place.  The fields are all under plow, the village is bursting at the seams with new people and buildings, and the concourse-market, a type of open-air affair generally frowned upon in the dale, looks like a part of a town bazaar dropped down into the middle of this wilderness; there are colours, sounds and smells from distant parts of the continent that give this village a truly worldly feel.

The prosperity of Liberty Hill is marked with some sorrow, though, which is felt by all.  This was the hearth of the Whitegate family; the ancestral patriarch of the family founded this place, and his own account of the matter is moving.  Today, the only Whitegate living here (for ‘here’ is where I write this very document) is my dear friend Lumina, and she has stepped back from any sort of governance or privilege.  She owns a small cottage at the corner of the village, and though she has a public life, being an ambassador to new guests and pilgrims, her presence here is the very symbol of power-waning.

As sad as this fact of life is, it is just that; times change, and there can be no doubt that the net change at Liberty Hill is profoundly good.  It is so good in fact, that when I have concluded my duties in the Order, I will return to Liberty Hill to spend the rest of my days there, and finally to be buried in the yard on the west-facing hill of that happy place.
