[Source: Daggerdale Flora and Fauna.txt, lines 279+]

11 Alturiak, 1483 - My Reconnaissance of the Thistle Ridge Ruin 
By Malveau Greenleaf, Independent Forester 
Alturiak 11, 1483 DR. 
I submit this report to Ambassador Whitmore and would like to thank him and his Office for their consideration for my intelligence.  I am told that others outside of his Office are considering a venture to reclaim the settlement known formerly as Thistle Ridge Farm, which herein I will refer to as the Ruin.  First, I will give a bit of context in advance of my findings to explain my credentials. 
My Background 
I, Malveau Greenleaf, am of partially-elven descent, my father being a Cormanthor Wood Elf born in the 12th century, my mother, Alexi Greenleaf (I'm not sure this was her true surname), originally a stable maid at Anathar's Dell, in the days before the great battles there in 1372.  I have no memory of my father, as he left with his People in the late 1370's in advance of the coming Spellplague.  At the time, I was just a child, and my mother as I understand it was not offered the chance to accompany my father.  As such, we were left to our own means, and it wasn't long before the harsh wilderness of Daggerdale violently claimed my mother's life and made me a captive of foul orcs.  I spent the remainder of my first score of years as the lowliest sort of slave to these vile creatures, being rescued from them by Ardelusk Whitegate and a ride of his Knights in 1398. 

Ardelusk made the most of my experience; having lived among the mountain orcs for more than a decade, I knew more about their language, culture, religion, and other facets of life than anyone else.  I was cloistered at the Cathedral for more than a year, where I was brought to full health while reciting all I knew to a team of scribes that have turned my account of the mountain orcs into a volume you can find reprinted and dog-eared on many shelves in the Dale. 

By 1400, I started to meet the brave men and women that came and went from the Castle and became interested in the places they had come from, and the battles they were waging and, usually, winning, against the Netherese.  As a small-framed woman, I was taught the shortbow, which I took to quickly.  Indeed, I served in the First Company Sun Blades when it was originally commissioned in 1403, and created the archery training curriculum still used to prepare our brave women of the Sun Blades for service today. 

After spending more than ten years at the Castle and ranging the Plains of Netheril, and many excursions into the Wastes, my focus began to wither.  I was in love with a Man, for starters.  He was a mercenary serving at the Castle, and after a cruel wound to his chest, was forced into retirement.  I watched him grow weaker as I hardly aged at all, and it was more than I could bear.  I selfishly left the Dale, spending the next several decades ranging the mountains and forests of Faerun, sometimes working with other Foresters, Rangers and Druids, usually in the service of worthy people in need of aid. 

On the hundredth anniversary of my mother's death, I returned Home to stay.  No longer young even by half elven standards, and finding it harder to keep up to the demands of the life I had made for myself, I came once again to Anathar's Dell, to find it completely encompassed by Cormanthor.  If not for my adherence to the Old Faith and the skills in the forest that I naturally possess and the Blessings I receive, I should not have found my mother's grave. 

I then visited the Cenotaph at Liberty Hill, a settlement I no longer recognized, it now having great walls and a thousand more people than I remember.  Unfortunately, many of my old friends there had been dead for decades, and news of the manner of their passing was a pain for me.  But I made new friends of their descendants and am happy to say that I am friends still with Lumina Whitegate and Troia Truestar, and consider them my closest confidants. 

I humbly submit that I was a part of the defense of Liberty Hill in 1480, and hope that my involvement was to the benefit of the few that survived that day. 

My time at Liberty Hill with Lumina and Troia as new friends was a mixed blessing.  I was heartened that heroes were being forged in the Dale outside of the stamp of Battlemaster and others like him, but I learned that many changes had come to the Dale, and many of the places I loved were now ruins, though others thrived.  First among these was Thistle Ridge. 

I knew Zarra Thistle when she was a girl.  Zarra and her mother (who's name I forget) would come to Anathar's Dell when I too was a small girl.  Her mother had business, and Zarra and I would play together while our mothers worked.  Even as a young girl, Zarra was already entrenched in the Old Faith, and I found her fascinating and impressive.  I hoped to meet her descendants to talk about her, but found out that her own daughter, Nadia Thistle, who had grown to be an impressive matriarch of Thistle Ridge, was murdered in the Tragedy of 1441. 

I had been to Thistle Ridge twice as a younger woman, toward the end of my time in the Sun Blades at the Castle.  By this time Zarra was a young matriarch who led a few families steeped in the Old Faith atop the limestone ridge beside the Tesh River.  Zarra and I renewed our friendship quickly and deeply.  I would liked to have stayed longer with her and her community; they were Good people and made me welcome.  They were also skilled in their own defense in a fashion that does not exist today.  They used Cormanthor as an ally, rather than treating it as an opponent, and were sheltered from the types of raiding and violence other farms needed walls to address.  The last time I saw Thistle Ridge before my decades abroad was in late Uktar of 1407, just before I left.  In fact, I was headed East to answer a call in Damara, where the Witch Queen had resurfaced (I rode off with Maturin and a Host, and watched him go over the walls at Heliogabalus several years later), and Thistle Ridge was to be the last place in the Dales I rested before a perilous journey. 

In 1407, Thistle Ridge was a community of perhaps fifty people from four families, all lead by Zarra.  Zarra was now of middle age, a revered time of life for us of the Old Faith, and her daughter, Nadia was an accomplished priestess.  The great oak Harngorn was at the centre of the settlement, and was ancient then.  The people of Thistle Ridge were friendly with me but had few relations otherwise.  They were already shunned by the Amaunatori, and the Chaunteans struggled to square their beliefs with the Old Faith and the forest they despised.  It was quiet and peaceful that year, but that changed soon after I left. 
Rumours and Legends of Thistle Ridge 
Before I give a detailed report of my recent reconnaissance, I will take the opportunity to summarize some of the rumours and legends of the place. 

Settlement by the Sembians 
It is well known that two prominent families from Sembia and others besides came to the Dale in 1407 and were settled alongside the Thistles a year later.  Any report from that time indicating that the Thistles welcomed them is erroneous.  In a letter I got from Zarra while I was in Damara in 1413, she reported that the Sembians were difficult to live with, and had attracted many Chaunteans.  The forest about them had been cleared, though Harngorn had been spared.  They built walls, and the walls attracted goblins like 'dung draws flies' I recall her writing.  Thiers was not an easy coexistence. 
The Chessentan Ague 
I have been to Chessenta and can tell you that the people there do not regularly suffer from the skin and constitutional ailment reported to have been suffered by their elders.  What was actually wrong with them is something I would have asked my old Liberator's sons if they were alive.   
The Tragedy – 10 Marpenoth 1441 DR 
Having spoken with my friend and colleague, Tuugan Swift, I can verify that the fate of Thistle Ridge was decided by the Grentzeldek hobgoblins, who were in league with numerous tribes of goblins from the other side of the River.  They somehow managed to destroy the tower of the main building (something I have seen the ruin of with my own eyes), and the aviary with it, cutting off communication to their neighbours and allies.  What followed was a lightning-fast assault, it must be imagined, in which almost everyone in the settlement was killed or taken prisoner by the Grentzeldek. 

It is hard to imagine how this could have been done with so little warning and in such a thorough manner.  I've never met a survivor, and don't know anyone who has.  I have Prayed for insight into the fates of my fellow Faithful, and was answered when I ventured into the Ruin recently, by way of seeing Harngorn riven and burnt. 
The Grentzeldek 
First, I should include in this report that the name 'Grentzeldek' is misunderstood by the few who even know the name of the hobgoblins living at the northern edge of Cormanthor.  The Grentzeldek, Tuugan tells me, are a changed people.  They are spit into multiple tribes now and can't be considered one people.  The main settlement, called Grentzeldek, is no longer strictly allied with the others, and it has become insular since the late 1440's.  I have heard from other sources that they are still a formidable military power, but they never venture south of the Fey Hills now, and as far as anyone knows, since the Tragedy.  The current problems at the Ruin are not due to this people, but I don't doubt they could be drawn into a conflict if it grew.   

What they took from Thistle Ridge, and why they haven't returned are complete mysteries. 
The Ghosts of Thistle Ridge 
The Ruin is indeed haunted.  For decades, people of the dale have avoided resettling the Ruin because of the presence of multiple ghosts.  I am aware of a report in the Yellow Abbey written by a young Magistrate who visited there shortly after the tragedy that confirms this. 

Having crept through the goblin encampment, I can confidently report that the goblins themselves avoid three of the larger structures, and have crude fetishes around them to keep the spirits at bay. 
The Caves Beneath Thistle Ridge 
The entire Northern Escarpment (as I call it, though none now use the term) is a tunnel-ridden limestone formation that connects to the Underdark.  An underground arm of the Solemn River passed beneath the settlement and emerged out the side of the cliff face when I was there in '07.  At some point, the Sembians blocked up the opening to the river, and diverted it deeper underground.  That a river could be diverted entirely indicates that the cave networks beneath Thistle Ridge are extensive. 
Goblin Occupation 
Tuugan tells me that goblins of various tribes have occupied the ruin from time to time over the last 40 years, but that there hasn't been continuous occupation until recently.  The goblins are reticent to cross the Tesh, and in the few instances he knew of, outside forces had been the root cause of goblins operating there.  The ruin sits empty most years, save the ghosts of the Tragedy that remain. 
Thistle Ridge Today 
I did a broad reconnaissance of Thistle Ridge from 6-9 Alturiak this year, at the request of the Ambassador from Charity.  I was able to survey much of the Ruin itself, as well as nearby parts of the original hinterland and other nearby areas of interest.   
The Yellow Tooth Goblin Clan 
The primary residents of the Ruin today are the Yellow Tooth Goblin Clan.  This is a new clan, as far as anyone can tell, and likely came out of the Dagger Hills just south of the Sorrow Bog.  I confirm that they still operate south of the Tesh in small patrolling bands, and hunt and forage in the bog for delicacies that are delivered to their main force in the Ruin. 

I avoided taking any hostages for the purposes of information gathering.  If I'm honest with myself and my contractor, I'm getting a bit too old, and perhaps soft, for that sort of intelligence gathering.  Listening as closely as I could to some smaller camps, I learned that their Chief is a priestess of Maglubiyet named Charrah, and that most of the Yellow Tooth venerate her as an embodiment of their god.  I understand her to be in the Ruin somewhere, though I never figured out exactly where she operates from. 

The Yellow Tooth are very good warriors, as well as expert beast-tamers.  It was the latter which kept me at a respectable distance from them most of the time.  They have command of many violent creatures they have bred apurpose, including a species of small but nasty worg, as well as a small version of the mountain lions used by the orcs.  Additionally, I saw some even more exotic beats being used as mounts in the Ruin itself, including a giant wasp and a small bear. 

I estimate the clan to be composed of between 400-800 goblins, most of which are military-aged males and females.  Half of these are in the Ruin itself, with perhaps 100 south of the Tesh, and a few hundred in the hinterland at various outposts, such as the old estates nearby. 
Bugbears 
I didn't see any bugbears, but they are present in the Ruin for certain.  The Ruin has many large patches of Bugberries, which always indicate the presence of the nearby monsters that produce them.  By nature cruel and cowardly, I expect there to be at least a small number of them, perhaps between 3-5.   

Sate of the Ruin 
Blessed Cormanthor has overtaken much of the Ruin, as could be expected.  With over 40 years of growth, the fields hard by the walls are gone completely, and inside the walls forest and thickets choke the crumbling ruins. 

The walls themselves have succumbed to the assault of 1441 and the Forest since, and provide no real obstacle at this point.  Many buildings have been completely reclaimed by the rapid growth of the area, though most of the largest structures seem to have survived.  The major Sembian fortifications, including the tower in the middle of the Ruin, and a great gate-house which was the main entrance from the river or road, were clearly destroyed in the Tragedy, their large blocks being thrown great distances. 

Despite this, the Yellow Tooth are making a home of the Ruin, and many of the remaining buildings that don't contain spirits have been shorn up, in their fashion, and paths have been cleared between them.  While the Ruin is much too large for a few hundred goblins to make it feel like a bustle, the place appears somewhat busy with the goblins making this into their home. 
Cause for Concern 
Despite the sporadic appearance of goblins and other monsters at the Ruin over the decades, the Yellow Tooth have been here for a year, and have already caused problems for visitors to the Dale.  They were entrenched in the Ruin with overwatch on the river and road no later than Mirtul of last year, when we know they harassed the first caravans arriving in the Dale, and continued to sew mischief all summer long.  The culmination of their mischief was the attack on the Drurginz Coster on 29 Marpenoth last year.  This was a caravan, I have learned, of at least 20 well armed guards which included a wizard.  The entire caravan was captured by the Yellow Tooth, and no one knows if there were any survivors.  I expect that there were not.  I have seen the wreckage of the wagons and tents, which have been dragged from the road to conceal the crime, and quite deviously, to not alert suspicion in passers-by. 

The presence of a priestess of Maglubiyet as well as bugbears shows that this tribe is on a war footing and will likely attempt to draw other tribes to their scheme.  It is well known in their religion that a proper warhost must include their monstrous trinity of goblins, hobgoblins, and bugbears.  They are 2/3 of the way toward this collection, and we must be extra vigilant to ensure that the Grentzeldek to the north don't become involved. 

The fact that this tribe is confident enough to attempt to establish what they must see as a more or less permanent occupation of a human settlement so near to the Falls suggests that they merit more consideration than the usual chaotic bands of these little monsters.  I take heart that members of the newly formed Governors' Assembly are indeed giving this matter the respect and concern it deserves, and will do my best to keep an eye on the situation as it unfolds, when I am able. 
