DDC – 1481 – 16: Selections from the Journal of Nathan Gale 
22 Marpenoth, 1481 - Journal of Nathan Gale 

GFD Notes: Why Reks will only give me snippets of this Journal, and not the whole thing has been a constant source of friendly debate between us. He insists that the journal is full of very sensitive materials of an ongoing matter. How the content below could not be described the same is curious. At any rate, the words of Gale are, as always, interesting and provide a counter-opinion to events. 
-GFD 
This town is full of liars and villains and secrets and incest. I don't for one minute think that Gideon acted only with a handful of people that he fled town with. I am suspicious of Medea Rowan and Chancellor Ferguson. They wield too much power in a town so small to have known so little about a cult right under their noses. And they are quick to placate us, while so few others offer the same. I will take Ferguson's gold and Medea's drink and whores, but only to deprive them of some small provision they might find useful against us. I will, of course, keep this to myself until there is proof. I must own that I have a bad record of proclaiming things before they're ripe, so-to-speak. 

Here are a couple of things worth bringing to the Order that happened over the last couple of days. 
After the Ecumenical Council 
The days that followed the Ecumenical Council of 20 Mpnth provided some much-needed rest. For those of us that took part in the Prayer of Adduction, we were exhausted through and through, to parts of us we weren't cognisant of before this ordeal. 

For some of us, the time was spent becoming familiar with the people and culture of Charity. Though we are hailed as heroes by some, this is still a town of extreme xenophobia, and nearly half of the people we encounter shun us, or whisper behind our backs. The disparate treatment of the people towards us mirrors the town itself, for this is a place of contrasts, which I have come to appreciate over the last few days. The stone architecture that is found everywhere is solid and well-laid, though it has clearly been built for form instead of function; there are many embellishments in the stonework that you don't find in the Dale, but in Dagger Falls you won't find walls with crumbling mortar or cracked statues. There are fine leaded-glass windows in nearly every building, but the streets don't get cleaned as well or as often as they do in Dagger Falls, which lends a smell to the town that is now somewhat muted by the accumulating slush and snow. 

It didn't take long for the locals to discover that we are staying at Arwencroft, and to start prying into our business. Soon, visitors were booking appointments to talk to various members of our party, managed mostly by our assistant, Flora. Most come to offer thanks, some to offer warnings, and the rare poorly-screened visitor to offer condemnation. The memory of many of these people blend into two categories; the relatively rough and dirty Freemen, and the relatively friendly and clean Middlemen. 
Elizabeth Miner 
Elizabeth came on her own early on the morning of the 21st of Mpnth. She insisted on speaking to me alone, and my ill-timed passing through the parlour eliminated any reasonable excuse to not meet with her. She is as respectable as her class allows; she has a clean but old dress and a fancier jacket that is clearly for special occasions. Her face is clean, but her hands are stained yellow from her work as a tanner's aid. She is humble, and generally does not look up at me when she talks. Here is what she said to me, in as close to her strong and nearly unintelligible accent as I can write; 

"I'm dread-sorry to 'mpose, sir. But there's those that says you know from demons, and I 'ears tell that you know of lakes of fire, and skies of ash. Everyone says you rescued some souls, and that's good work, sure. But there's souls that need 'couting yet, sir. I'm talkin' 'bout me 'usband, I am. Griff. Griff Miner, sir. Good man" she stops to pull a nice-but-frayed kerchief from her pocket, to wipe her eyes, and her sniffling nose. 

"Griff is one o'them as got kilt at the Fergy Saltpetre mine last year. Only, I weren't never sure 'ee was kilt at all. I dreamed of him, in a lake of fire, under a sky of ash I did. Only, the dreams stopped recently. I know it don't sound right, but I was glad to see him in my dreams, even though 'e was tormented. At least I could see 'im. Remember 'im. Now 'e's gone, e is. I think 'e's in more trouble now than even before." She finally looks up at me . 

"Go git me Griff" she says, trying to be brave. She sets her chin and nods, but this countenance quickly dissolves into a very brief fit of sob-filled begging. She apologized for her lack of composure, and excused herself as quickly as possible from Arwencroft. 
Now here was more than a bit of news. 
This common woman, a tanner, knew about the visions I had of Avernus, and the souls of the damned from Dwimmerholme. This isn't exactly a secret at this point, but the fact that it has percolated to a woman of her stature means that it is surely common knowledge. For good or for ill. 

But also, why had no one told us about the problems at the 'Fergy Saltpetre' mine 'last year'?! I immediately went to Flora, who confirmed that in the late fall of 1480, 12 men were buried in a mine collapse that happened just west of the settlement of Bridgehead, well into the mountains. The little mining settlement is affectionately known as 'Fergy's Hole', and there are 12 families there missing their men. This news combined with what we found in Basil's kitchen (the journal of Ardelusk), and the general direction of our fleeing quarry, tell me that our next steps are clear. In fact, a couple of the team who have read Ardelusk's account from 1448, know exactly where he is talking about ('South East of Nevermore Lake'), and this location is likely the same as Fergy's Hole. 

Our path is clear, and I hope our leader see's it as plainly as I do. I will share this with him in the morning and see.
