[Source: Nightal 27 1439.txt, lines 23+]

29 Ches – Calamity 
On this clear, cool sunny morning, the final arena battle of the tournament is set to conclude, and the outcome of it could determine who wins the entire contest.  Facing off against the Standing Stone League, you feel confident that you'll prevail; you've beaten every team before you, and the SSL has had difficulties. 

The crowd this morning numbers in the hundreds, and the banners for both sides are being waved vigorously, though yours clearly outnumber your opponents by 3-to-1, the beautiful embroidery of the Halfling Auxiliary now creating large islands of green and purple in the sea of spectators. 

Ambassador Whitmore attempts to get the crowd's attention, but the atmosphere is charged with energy and excitement, and he smiles and allows the crowd to continue to roil.  While this is happening, a low cloud obstructs the sun somewhat, attracting some attention.  At the same time, there is a low rumble from beneath the arena, and most people in the audience go quickly from cheering to making worried noises, and looking around in confusion.  From the stands there is a scream and someone yells "look out!" just as a large rock falls from the sky, plummeting through the stands sending bodies and splinters of wood flying in every direction.  A moment of complete chaos erupts, as more large stones fall from the sky, and now you all realize that large flying creatures are dropping them on people below.   

Then comes a tremendous rumble, the ground shaking violently knocking over many people and structures, and a tremendous eruption from the middle of the arena becomes the focal point of the madness.  Rubble, water and smoke fly high into the sky, and a hideous deep bellowing noise nearly deafens everyone.  As some of the smoke clears, a purple worm is seen erupting from a gaping hole in the arena floor, towering some 40' in the air, most of its body concealed in the hole it has just erupted from.  Just as you are able to take this in, many smaller worms, though still some dozens of feet long slither out beside the monstrosity in the middle.   

If all of this wasn't enough, the cloud of monsters overhead now descends, revealing themselves to be a large host of gargoyles that have now dropped among the crowds and begin rending flesh. 

In the chaos of the flying splinters, smoke and screams, you can clearly hear the voices of many of the attendees calling their fighters to order, and almost as fast as the enemy appeared, the many heroes here assembled begin to mount a defense, as arrows and spells fly, and shouts to rally now rise above the chaos.  Many desperate battles are now being fought in a dozen places in the arena, including at your feet, where a pair of gargoyles have landed to face you up close. 

By now, every child in the dale has heard of the Ghosts of Thistle Ridge, and more than a few men and women claim to have seen or been close to them in the few years since the Thistle Ridge Tragedy.  I was given the task as the 'resident expert' on these matters to investigate the ruins and see what truth if any there is to the rumours.  My expertise comes entirely from the study of the small collection of books about the undead that is permitted to be shelved in the Athenaeum, most of which I think could be labelled as 'fairy tales'.  A couple have merit, but I have not had access to serious literature on the matter, and for that I am grateful and indebted to the Chaplain of the Athenaeum, who's vigil keeps our minds as clear as the morning sun. 

Below, I will give a brief description and chronology of my likewise brief expedition to the ruins, and follow with an analysis and theory about what I found.  I hope greater men than I will be able to use this information for the betterment of the dale someday. 
The Expedition 
This might be a lofty title for four-days' journey from my comfortable bed at the Abbeye, but on the morning of 21 Eleint, 1445 DR, exactly four years to the day after the Tragedy, assembling at the East Gate with a ride of Sunblades and receiving rites and blessings from the Chaplains and the Bishop, I had the feeling I was taking part in something greater than the sum of its parts.  The air was cool and crisp on this Autumnal Equinox, and all the Signs and Portents suggested a safe return.  As usual, they were mostly right, and remind us that mortals should have the humility to accept the judgement of the Gods, even when our limited intellect perceives them (incorrectly) as mercurial and capricious.   

I was attached to the 18th Company 1st Platoon, "Task Masters".  This is the Command Platoon of the reserve company, and we were led by the company captain himself, Dexter Broad (I have included a sketch of him to the side), a stout man from the eastern dales somewhere.  His sergeant was a woman named Bella Birtch from Lostead, a capable archer, forester and leader.  Their company chaplain also accompanied us.  This was a younger woman named Hannah Hillborn of Scardale, who had answered a Divine Call to come to come and study at the Abbeye.  Being some ten years my junior, I didn't know her well, and I regret that I didn't get to know her in the brief time we were allotted together. 

With twenty-four Sunblades, plus the command element and attached retinue, we were thirty in total, with half that many horse and a small train with provisions and tents. 

We mustered at the East Gate for Prime, this early hour granting few witnesses to our departure, aside from the clergy and some wives and children seeing us off.  The Bishop declared our commission and blessings complete, with Good Auspex.  However, as the captain mounted his great warhorse, his son broke from his mother's side and ran to his father, tears in his eyes.  He cried about never seeing his dad again, and how we'd all be food for crows.  Though there are some in the dale that put too much stock in the augury of children, occasionally they merit our attention and consideration.  We didn't think today was such a day, given our Auspex, and off we marched. 

We made Gribbons' by Nones and enjoyed their hospitality for the remainder of the day and that night.  A great work is underway here, the people of this farm still grieving the loss of their neighbours and fearful that the hobgoblin horde that obliterated them without warning and vanished just as quickly might repeat this treachery outside the walls of this very settlement.  They have two dwarven engineers hired, and the terraced redoubt of the central farm is shaping up to be one of the finest strongpoints in the hinterland of our fair dale.  The mayor here has chosen to make a smaller, taller, and sturdier fortress surrounded by unwalled farms, rather than a longer and lower walls which we see in the settlements to the West and South of the Falls.  I hope they are never tested, but I don't doubt the strength of that dwarf-laid stone, or the resilience of the tunnels and stores beneath. 

I took the opportunity to break bread with the local Magistrate, a good man I've known for some fifteen years, Invictus.  Invictus is a Cormyrean, and answered the Call to come to the Abbeye when he was only ten years old.  He convinced his family to send him on his own to live and study here, and we enrolled at the same time, though he was some eight years my junior.  Already lettered in the Cormyrean fashion, he was a lightning-fast study of the Faith and wrote his first Treatise (on the dual nature of pain and the harvesting of the Light it can produce, if memory serves me) by the time he was fourteen years old. 

Invictus caught me up on everything he knew about the Tragedy and the condition and status of the Ruin presently.  Indeed, he had been assigned to tend the flock in Downriver Chapel the very spring before the Tragedy, and his memory of the days that followed it was keen.  I've tried to capture his memories to the fullest of my humble abilities below. 
