On the Heterochromia of Hagspawn
Once known as ‘Changelings’ or ‘Quicklings’ by the Ancient Netherese (and earlier peoples, what ho?!), we have called them Hagspawn in these parts of Faerun for as long as I can remember, and that’s long enough even by elvish measures now. I should start with the boys, because this is where the biggest misconceptions arose so lo ago.

But no, let me start rather with the habit of progeny of these remarkable creatures. I will begin beginning by saying that though they appear terrible to most Faerunians, Hags are still Fey, and this means they are capable of great and wonderful things, though they tend to vice and more than a little mischief, but couldn’t that be said of just about anyone worth the ink for a remark? Like all races, they have a drive to reproduce, which is why people of all walks of life have been discussing them for over ten millennia. As a rule, they do not take a single mate (would that others followed their example), and unlike most species, they seem to be able to mate across a wide range of others. In fact, it has been surmised by scholars of various skill that their ‘survival strategy’ (something belonging to a race, if not an individual) has been to run a sort of experiment with their wombs to see what they can produce with this random mate or the next. It is fairly certain that in the dimmest morning hours of civilization, that trolls, ogres and other foul creatures were the early successes of these experiments. In the Western Heartlands, there is round consensus such as we can build in our order, that the Bugbear, though no longer imbued with many vestigial fey qualities (beyond a preternatural stealth much greater than their size should permit), is the product of the copulation of certain hags and the hobgoblin race. Hags remain fond of both, though only bugbears seem to appreciate the fondness, even if only in their vice-ridden fashion.

I have established that hags will mate with a variety of prospects (lucky girls!), and it is well established among the learned that they give birth to both males and females, which we can call •changelings’ if you like. I’ll start with the boys.

For the most part, they kill the boys. Why this behaviour should persist over the millennia we do not know, but it is well established that this is their practice. However, there has, for all this time, been a confusing notion that all children of hags are shape-changers. This is true only in the boys, the male name for this creature as given by the Netherese and translated into our vulgar tongue being •Changeling’. True Shape Changers with the greatest degree of control over their abilities, stories of them penetrate all ages, as we have all read. Terrible wonderful stories for the most part.

But I have never met a true Changeling. I suspect very few ever do, as the infanticide rate for this particular creature is nearly perfect, with only rare escapes from the deadly wishes of the mother made possible usually by rival Fey.

Now to the girls, who are numerous and interesting, though meaner than their mothers, and with less of the Fey qualities that we admire in Hags. Let me return to the title of this chapter; female hagspawn always have two different coloured eyes; one representing the nature of their mother, the other representing the nature of the father. For this reason, we may find where, in areas such as Saerloon, with a protracted residency of Sea Hags, that disparate sisters walk the country side or the shores (usually causing mischief or worse or something wonderful once in a long and unusual while) with features similar and different at once; this one will be tall and willowy with fair, nearly imperceptibly blue skin, a sea-green eye and a blue eye (for the hag mother and human or half-elven father); this one will be stout, mean in appearance, green-skinned, with a sea-green eye and a grey eye (for the hag mother and some other monstrous father). Much can be learned by studying the eyes of these creatures; the vice and narcissism of their mothers are oftentimes betrayed by the eyes of these daughters.
Here are some of the known eye colours of the hags of the Eastern Heartlands;
•	Of the Night Hags south of the Dragon Coast, one eye always of Jet, and they favour in this century the vile devil-folk who walk now with impunity in gentle places, and produce in a Changeling a reddish eye

•	Of the Moon Hags which might be found clinging to the crumbling tombs of previous centuries, we find always an eye of putrid milk, and they favour when they can pin them to an old sarcophagus, mates from the Fey Realm which are now over-abundant by any reasonable opinion, and produce in the Changeling an eye of glorious amber or shimmering saffron.

•	Of the Swamp Hags which have plagued the dales since before the Standing Stone was erected, an eye of crystal grey, and they favour any stiff mate they can trick or capture, but often enough breed with the nephews of their race (in Dales Fashion), goblins, hobgoblins and bugbears, producing myriad distasteful hues in mean-eyed villainesses.

•	Of the Annis Hags that the Purple Dragons have never come close to eradicating from their Royal Forests, a purple eye to match their natural tone, and they prefer as everyone knows, the very Men that the Purple Dragons try in vain to protect, and from Men they often produce an eye of clear blue, though once in a while of brown, where the Cormyrean line has been muddied even before the unholy copulation in question.
