DDC – Chapter Three – Forword and Summary 
Wherein the players and events of the 14th century that affected present-dale Daggerdale are neatly inventoried. 
You'll notice, fair reader, that I have omitted Chapters one and two from this chronicle. That is because I never wrote them, and the source materials are now difficult to find. 
Chapter one would begin around 975 DR, with the vampiric infestation and the building of Castle Daggerdale. While there are enough wild and conflicting stories from this era to fill a book (indeed, I've seen just such a book), there are no source documents left, and none left to give firsthand accounts (though there might be somewhere deep in Cormanthor or Myth Drannor, but they are presently occupied). 
Chapter two is much nearer our time. It would begin in the 1350's with Randall Mourn, and probably end in 1371 with him hanging from the Bridge in Daggerfalls. This was the first Zhent occupation of 
Daggerdale, and though short-lived, it created a draw for the Zhents to the area, much like the first ant arriving at a picnic. 
Chapter three, which I have written (or collected and written) begins on the western shores of this continent, in the city of Waterdeep, more than 3000 miles away from Daggerdale. It begins here, because this was the first place I could find source materials relating to Zhents and beholders, who would sculpt the dale into what it is today. 
The opening of the chapter is a collection of documents relating to some rogues (the Company of the Red Herring) who would ultimately evolve into the heroes that come to liberate Daggerdale in late 1372, though after many confusing iterations. 
The Company of the Red Herring ran missions for a wizard named Thagdul, who worked either with, against, or for one or more beholders. The whole thing is quite confusing, but here are the salient actors in the play; 
The Company of the Red Herring (CRH) – Adventurers and mischief-makers that get entangled with the beholders and Zhents, and unwittingly set off a chain of events that ultimately ends Zhent trading domination on either side of Anauroch. 
The Company of the Eastern Storm – Made up of members of the CRH, Harpers, and other adventurers, this company sets out from Waterdeep in 1371, crosses Anauroch, and liberates Daggerdale. Their long and heroic tale is summarized as neatly as I can make it in DDC – 1372 – 2: The Daggerdale Expedition. 
The Zhentarim – Two competing companies of Zhents in Waterdeep with ties to Zhent leaders in the Moonsea region. This organization grows from a troublesome and effective trading network to a military power, all while colluding with beholders much of the time, and drow some of the time. 
Company Drurginz – Lead by the wizard Thagdul, who claimed that he and the company were all a front for the Harpers. This has never been proven or disproved to my satisfaction. This company and Thagdul seem to have been working with the beholder Xulla, who will come in and out of this chronicle many times. 
Company Dalael – Based in Waterdeep with offices in Menzoberanzan, these are surface- dwelling drow that inculcated themselves into the nobility of Waterdeep and acted as a third- party in the struggle between the Zhents and the adventurers, ultimately contributing to the end of Zhentarim power in Waterdeep, which they would not share. 
The most important theme to take away from Chapter Three, especially for readers mortal like myself, is that there are some schemes that take decades and centuries to hatch. We have not heard the last of Xulla, or the Dalael, maybe not even of Thagdul, though he was but a mortal man. 
The rest you'll have to read for yourself. Do pour yourself a warm cup of tea before you dive into DDC – 1372 – 2: The Daggerdale Expedition. Though this is one of the best parts of the chronicle, and the one for which I am most proud, I failed in my attempt to be brief. 
-GFD
