== 17 Kythorn, 1371 - Guess Who's Coming to Dinner==
400px|right
The Red Herrings had much to celebrate with the defeat of the Reprobates, and few would argue that they had done the City a grand service in carrying out that much-needed extermination. But Ersgul itself was the greater threat, and the companions had the forboding sense that like some Chultan hydra, their amputation of one verminous appendage would spawn a multitude of others before long. For a time, however, there was peace in the streets, and the companions took a well-deserved rest. It wasn’t until a week later that the final events were put in motion, which would seal their allegiance, and their fates, in the war that was to come.

On a quiet summer evening when a warm breeze, heavy with the sea’s moisture, was gently buffeting the streets of Dockward, an note from Thagdul arrived at headquarters,  inviting the companions to join him for an evening meal at his house the following evening. So it came to be that on the evening of 18 Kythorn, 1371, at a well-appointed residence in Trade Ward, the Company of the Red Herring were welcomed into their patron’s sanctum by Thagdul’s ward Mhairne, an orphan girl whom he had taken in as a servant.

When Mhairne had ushered the guests into Thagdul’s lounge, they were surprised to encounter an unexpected acquaintance – it seemed that the good doctor, Gregor Kahsick, had also been invited to dinner. After a few minutes of awkward small talk, Thagdul himself appeared, and bade the party to move into the dining room. Over a sumptuous feast, the wizard revealed the reason that he had called them together – the impending meeting of the Dark Market in Skullport.

400px|thumb|The wizard’s faulty map, annotated by members of the Company of the Red Herring after their expedition under the mountain

Once every year, he told them, at a specific location on the upper-most level of the Undermountain, the denizens of Skullport and other high-ranking underworld types convened to trade black-market goods, bads, and worse. Through his underworld contacts, Thagdul had discovered that the missing Raventree children were hostages of a group of cultists that worshipped a demonic entity known as , and that this cult would be attempting to move their ill-gotten 'wares' at the great auction hosted by Misker, a devious beholder that held much power in Skullport. Furthermore, the Moonsea man continued, he had discovered that these particular cultists were associated in some way with Company Ersgul. Using his divinatory skills (which, Jafar haughtily explained, must have been by means of a spell called Wizard Eye), Thagdul had sketched a map of the area surrounding the Market, and a route from the Slide. It was in the interests of Drurginz that this Xvimite-Ersgul alliance be foiled as soon as poosible, and given Raven's desire to rescue these children, he felt that the Red Herrings were best positioned to make use of such intelligence. As for the Moonsea man's reason for including Gregor in his, it suffices to say that to the extent that each man understood the schemes of the other, they had agreed that Gregor’s participation in the mission would be of mutual benefit.

Following the dinner, Tomas went forthwith to the Riven Shield Shopppe, where he purchased a magic shield – slightly worn, but serviceable – for the small fortune of 700 gp. There was danger ahead, and he and his companions would need all the protection they could get.

== 19 Kythorn - Going Spelunking ==
thumb|The dark and twisted ways of Halaster's realm|300px
===The Slide===

The next dawn was masked by clouds and driving rain, and Gregor was drenched when he arrived at Red Herring headquarters at half past seven bells to join the Companeers. Having spent the evening making preparations for the expedition, the party headed to the Slide, where they entered the City sewer system. The entrance to Undermountain did not seem to have been used in a long time, and Raven hurt his back trying to move the stone that sealed the entrance, but Tomas, Jafar, and Gregor, working together, eventually managed to shift the block and open the passage. However, before any could move forward, Gregor bade the party halt, and with a rapid gesture, sent his familiar – a flying demon-cat he called [[Aggis] – into the darkness to scout out the immediate area. Only seconds late, the winged feline returned, and a bright flash of electrical energy came from the room below. Cautiously, the company waited to see if the flash would come again, and it was followed by another, eight minutes later, then after another six and half minutes, it came again. Fearing that their window of opportunity was narrowing, the party leaped into action. Esperel was the first to drop down into the chamber, which was dominated by a large, headless and fingerless statue. The wily elf was quickly able to discover a door leading out of the room, and he nimbly released the catch and moved into the next room.  After the next flash, the rest of the party quickly descended into the lightning chamber and through the opened door. In the next room, six dwarves lay sleeping soundly – and according to a note on Thagdul’s map, had been in such a state for some time. Despite their best efforts, the party was unable to wake the dwarves by any means.

Thereupon followed many hours of fruitless wandering ... Thagdul's map was not as helpful as the heroes had been led to believe, and the party made many additions. Many of the rooms were oddly appointed, and the party came upon many mysterious artifacts whose significance was lost upon them. Tomas, however, always seemed to have a suggestion or solution to the riddles of the great catacomb. Perhaps lighting the abandoned lantern in the abandoned room would summon a djinn (it did not). Or perhaps the sleeping curse on the dwarves could be lifted by placing them in the empty beds they found in an adjoining chamber (nobody listened to him). Even the fisherman’s more pragmatic suggestions seeemd to go awry – putting the torch to spider webs found in yet another chamber caused the arachnids to emit piercing screams, which nearly deafened the party. Before long he had exhausted his companions’ patience, and he was forced into silence on pain of being left to fend for himself in the dark maze.

=== Under the Mountain ===

Several hours later, the company faced off against an ettin in its den, but the giant thing was swiftly dealt with, and forced to surrender by Tomas. Raven urged his companions to show mercy, but even as he did so, Ellyth stabbed the creature in the neck, killing it - a callous decision that would earn her the enmity of the noble ranger. Tomas' shoulder had been broken during the encounter, but such a trifling wound was presented no challenge to Gregor, who was able to set the bone without any problem. The heroes could see a giant key ring hanging from the ceiling, but before they had any thoughts about recovering the item, a party of orcs could be heard approaching. At this point,  the company hightailed it out of the area, choosing not to fight. Esperel, however, threw down some caltrops and fired a couple of arrows into the war band, angering the orcs, who moved to pursue. Gregor cast web, thwarting the advance, and the party moved on.

The next find was to be a room with a sarcophagus, where the wandering party fought a large serpent and a grell. After disposing of the the creatures that guarded it, the party 'liberated' a 2h sword from the sarcophagus - though they (perhaps wisely) decided not to open it. A small box of treasure (300 gp and 2 rubies) was discovered in the grell’s cave.

Towards what the party felt must have been mid-afternoon, they came upon a room of gargoyles. All fled save Tomas, who was attacked forthwith, and though he got in a strike with his sword, he was nearly ripped apart by the gargoyles. He managed to flee, whereupon he found that Raven had been hit by lightning trying to rescue him. Finally after yet another hour of wandering, the party espied a company of approximately a dozen ogres and forty goblins making their way through the tunnels to the southeast. Keeping a careful distance, the Red Herrings were able to follow these humanoids to their destination - the Dark Market of Skullport.

=== The Dark Market ===

At approximately 1700h, we enter the Dark Market. Saves, undead, shadows and monsters aplenty populate this huge cavern. High above what seems to be a dragon wing flaps by (Tomas is sure that this is just an illusion put on for show). The Lathkule boy, Adonai, and the Raventree children (Sarahn and Loadin) are found in the pen. Gregor sends a corpselinked spider to investigate the cultist caverns. Once that is done, he casts a spell that brings up a magical pyramid house. Back at the market, Tomas reluctantly offers 850 go to buy the freedom of an old Dockward acquaintance named Job, even though he never liked him much. Nevertheless, the good-hearted fisherman feels an obligation to the fine folk fo Dockward.

A mithril falil was purchased for Job (300 gp)

In an area where drow seem to congregate, a drow (Y’morth Dalael) is seen walking around with the human mage Dally’s sphinx staff.

A bone ring of protection from level-draining is purchased from the necromancer Ebeguld, and given to Garth.

Back at the auction, Sara and Lodan Raventree are purchased for 16500 and 7y50 gp respectively. Adenai Lathkule, however, is apparently a hot commodity, and commands a price of 4500 gp. A humanoid figure dressed in a purple robe is unduly interested in Adenai.

== 20 Kythorn - The Cult of Iyachtu Xvim ==
thumb
The next day, the assault is mounted on the cultists. One group of undead is quickly dealt with, after which, Gregor uses a skull explosion to decimate the human forces. Jafar detects invisibility and catches the purple fellow from the previous evening watching us. Ellyth gives chase and makes a hedgehog out of him with arrows, but he manages to escape. Jafar and Esperel head back to block the entrance with fire. Raven and Tomas confront the three remaining Hatemasters, but unfortunately Tomas is immediately incapacitated and knocked to the ground. Raven takes out two of the three. While Esperel and Garth come sin from behind to take out the final cultist. All the loot we can scrounge is loaded onto a cart, including an enchanted set of plate armour that is given to Job. We are soon accosted by a trio of ettins, who have crawled their way into the caves. One is killed by Tomas, a second is fooled by Garth and the third avenged its mate by incapacitiating Tomas. The purple mage is spotted again, and chased by Esperel. Gregor makes short work of the remaining ettin, and all leave the caves to find Esperel in shock.

He had just been accosted by a purple-eyed beholder who accused him of being mwean to the purple mage. In exchange for Esperel pledging us all to his service, the beholder spared Esperel’s life.

== 21 Kythorn - The Curse of Ravensblight ==

The next evening, after we’ve recovered and rested, Nandos Raventree holds a party in our honour. Midway through, however, the party is interrupted by Myelin Lathkule, carryin gthe body of Jameen Raventree. Ravenblight/Doomface has struck again. Nandos cancels the party and gives each member of the CrH 500 gp

Eseperel muses that the purple mage might have been Ravenblight, but Tomas asks why Ravenblight would have wanted the Lathkule. The boy Adonai has no suggestions.

After a difficult and misguided journey through Undermountain, the CRH and Gregor arrived at Dark Market.  They managed to contain themselves and keep themselves from ending up in the slave pens long enough to seek out the Xvimites.  Relying heavily upon Gregor’s magic, the CRH managed to destroy the cultists, only to find that the Raventree children weren’t there.

A mage in purple robes was chased out of the Xvimite lair by Esperel.  Esperel managed to shoot many arrows into the mage before Esperel was intercepted by a beholder that may have been Xulla.  This beholder spared Esperel’s life in return for a ‘favour’.  And so it came to be that Esperel became the pawn of both sides of the Zhent conflict.

The Raventree children were already at the slave pens and ready for auctioning, as it turns out.  The CRH had to spend almost all the money it had to purchase them, but the mage with the purple robe tried to outbid the CRH for a particular child named Adonai.

At length, the CRH made their way out of Undermountain after a successful mission.  Thagdul rewarded all with magical cloaks and other rewards.

The CRH was not involved in any more conflicts until shortly before Harvestide of that year.
