== History ==

The Warburton name in Daggerdale is long and storied. It is told below.

=== Tiberius and Darius; Warburton Heroes ===

The Warburton name used to be a name that earned respect and good will. Tiberius Warburton was a paladin of Lathander that was the scourge of any and all evil that hoped to eke out some manner of existence in Daggerdale. There were tales of him finding and destroying an entire coven of vampires that had been in the Daggerdale area for centuries and that was one of the least of the legends that surrounded his name. Tiberius had a son by the name of Darius. Darius did not take the same path as his esteemed father but still became a warrior of no small repute. Darius Warburton became a Captain in the Daggerdale militia and played a key role in the defense of the various farms that dotted the land as well as leading a number of expeditions into the mountains in the West, even going as far as Anauroch in the hope to waylay any and all who would plot against Daggerdale. Darius Warburton had become every bit a hero as his father but had done so by walking his own path and not relying on the reputation of his father.

=== Gode; Warburton and Zhent ===

Darius had a single son named Gode. Gode Warburton grew up in relative luxury and had a sense of entitlement that far outweighed his accomplishments. Much like how his own father chose to walk a path that was different from his father, Gode found the lifestyle of a hale and hearty warrior an unpleasant one. Instead, he busied himself by spending his father's fortune in various business ventures in the hopes of amassing a fortune of his own. It seemed that the Warburton name was better suited to cleaving and impaling things as opposed to having a keen eye for business opportunities.

Over the course of Gode's life, he managed to spend nearly all of the Warburton fortune and Darius, unwilling to admit that his son was a failure and worse, a coward; continued to go on \"adventures\" well into his twilight years, claiming that adventuring was in his blood and he couldn't get enough of it. Darius managed to keep Gode in coin and trinkets until the fateful day that he failed to return from an adventure.
Two of the surviving members of his adventuring company eventually returned and spoke of a terrible assault upon them that was made by a rampaging blue dragon while they were camped at the edge of Anauroch. Darius fought hard as did the rest of the company but they were outmatched by the enormous and ferocious beast. A funeral was held a tenday later. Preparations were made for an elaborate funeral for Gode's esteemed father and ever the one to be concerned about appearances Gode went overboard and spent a great deal of coin even going so far as to have a statue of his father commissioned to be set at the entrance of the Warburton estate and farm.

A year later, Gode was running low on coin without his father to rely upon he became more desperate and less discerning regarding whom or what he might be making business deals with. Through what he told himself was happenstance, he began to slowly make a profit by making more and more deals with less and less savoury and respectable individuals. He had heard rumours that the Zhentarim were trying to make inroads to the Dales but he assured himself that was he was doing was perfectly innocent and reasoned that one man could do little to harm what Daggerdale had become.

Years passed and Gode began to reclaim the fortune he had spent in his younger years but as each coin came in, it seemed as if the once proud Warburton name became more and more diminished. More people whispered behind their hands when he rode into town with his current wife and just a handful of his bastard children and Gode told himself that it was envy that caused them to behave in such a fashion.

Gode had made the acquaintance of a particular helpful trader by the name of Aleshkun. Aleshkun would leave Daggerdale for lengthy journeys but always returned with coin for Gode, advice and direction. Gode would simply find himself put in a position where he needed to take care of a few things for Aleshkun or some of Aleshkun's close friends. Gode found that the less he asked, the more coin he received and Gode was nothing if not clever and a quick study.

Gode threw an elaborate celebration for Randal Morn when he returned from his exile and helped expunge the Zhentarim influence from Daggerdale. Although much of Dagger Falls attended the celebration, Gode Warburton was given no respect and not a single offering of \"Thanks\" for the effort he had made or the contributions he had made to Daggerdale’s rightful heir or to the kingdom he had supported much as his father and grandfather had done. All that he received was a stern warning from Randal Morn, himself. A quick and ignorant, \"I'm watching you and your friends, Warburton. Do not presume that your family's legacy excludes you from being accountable for what you have helped wrought.\"

Gode was shocked and outraged by the accusation and threat but he held his tongue as he did not wish to spoil the mood of the celebration. Gode continued with his business ventures as he had before although he began to show a bit more caution with the ventures he was investing in as well as taking a great deal of effort to remove himself as much as he could from the business at hand.

In time, things had returned to \"normal\" in Daggerdale despite Randal Morn's efforts. Gode was working more and more often with Aleshkun and there were discussions had regarding darker plots but Gode simply focused on the coin and what needed to be done to amass more of it. Gode was so focused on the profits that when two of his sons became members of the Zhentarim, it barely even registered in his head and when Randal Morn was captured and rumored to be killed by the Zhentarim and replaced by a man called Yarkul; it didn't matter to him that Yarkul and his long time contact Aleshkun appeared to be the same man.

Gode's two sons had performed well in their role involving the capturing and assassinating of Randal Morn and over time as the political and physical landscape began to dramatically change in Daggerdale, Gode's two sons did an exemplary job of convincing the people of Daggerdale that the Warburton name was one to be feared and respected but just fear would suffice.

The atmosphere at the Warburton estate was one of smug confidence. Even when some peasant had gone to the lengths to deface the statue of Darius Warburton the peasant was eventually tracked down and made an example of. People learned that it was wise to refrain from spitting at the Warburton brothers or at \"Old Man Warburton\" and Gode found himself smiling at nearly all hours of the day.

=== Warburtons and the Eastern Storm ===

The arrival of the Army of the Eastern Storm was a mild annoyance but Gode had faith in the people that were in control and fully expected that this upstart and self-righteous group would soon be turned away and day to day business could be resumed once more. Gode’s two eldest sons assured him that everything would be taken care of and all would be set right but then it simply was not.

The sounds of battle could be heard at the first light of the day and Gode found himself waiting inside his manor with a overwhelming sense of dread forming in his stomach. The Warburton brothers had led the defense of the tower and were cut down by soldiers of the Eastern Storm in the time it took for an eye to blink. Gode waited for his sons to return to the estate and give him news of what happened but rather than his sons, his door was kicked down by a number of torch-wielding peasants. There, they told him that there was no Army of the Eastern Storm. It was five warriors and a mage and nothing more. These six people had torn down what had taken him and his \"Zhent friends\" decades to build in the course of a single day - and his two sons had died like the cowards they were. The ugly, angry mob spared his newest wife at the time, as she happened to be with child, but Gode found himself tied to the statue of his father and burnt alive. It was said that his screams of pain and sorrow could be heard all the way in Dagger Falls that night as he burnt to death.

=== Talus and Targus; Warburtons and Shar ===

The overgrown courtyard of the Warburton Estate|thumb|400px

The unborn child turned out to be another son whose mother named him Talus. Talus Warburton struggled against the legacy that his father left behind. People were outright awful to his mother and at times, violent. He and his mother constantly struggled to make do with what little coin they had (as much of the coin that Gode had hidden away had been found during the sacking of Warburton Estate that followed the retaking of Dagger Falls). As Talus grew, he found some solace in the local church of Shar and rather than dwell on all the evil things his father and brothers had done, he chose to simply forget them. To do away with the memories and focus more on what could be done in the here and now. It was a struggle but Talus worked at farming and managed to put forth some meagre results but many refused to do business with him simply because of his surname.

The Warburton estate fell into ruin and the once proud farm became over grown with only a few fields being worked and those few produced a minimal amount of food. In time, Talus' mother died and he was alone on his farm but soon found a wife in the local church of Shar. The two were married without fanfare or celebration but Talus was thankful for Shar's blessing and was determined to make the people of the surrounding area forget about his family's history. Talus' wife was a young girl of seventeen years with dark eyes and a shy smile by the name of Nola. It wasn't long before Nola was with child and they carried on the Warburton legacy of sons with one of their own. Targus was born as the Spellplague was wreaking havoc across the realms but the denizens of Daggerdale remained relatively untouched. While the Warburtons continued to worship Shar, things began to change in Daggerdale. The return of Amaunator was beginning to play a greater role in everything that seemed to be going on in Daggerdale and with the rise of Netheril in the west and their obvious ties to Shar, worshippers of Shar, no matter how innocent they seemed were met with less and less tolerance. Talus, Nola and their son Targus eventually separated from the worship of Shar and simply stuck to their struggling farm north of Dagger Falls. The dale was becoming decidedly more and more savage with Cormanthor growing closer and closer every year and farming was becoming more and more difficult for the small family.

Talus Warburton did the best he could although his penchant for simply ignoring that which he thought was \"bad\" or \"wrong\" wasn't always the best way to deal with things, that personality trait was passed onto his son, Targus. Talus struggled all of his life with near-poverty and a poorly worked farm but when he was lying on his deathbed at the age of forty-seven he felt a small twinge of pleasure at the fact that no one any longer spat upon him, his wife or his child and although people still looked down on him, they no longer refused to do business with the name of Warburton.

=== Iolus Warburton ===

Targus was much the same as his father – quick to forget a problem and quick to leave a fight. He stayed focused on tending his aging mother and doing what he could with their farm and over time he grew close to and wed a simple girl from Dagger Falls by the name of Elsa. Targus and Elsa's coupling produced their only son, Iolus. Even as a small child, Iolus was rarely satisfied with what was given to him. He wanted more. He wanted better. Those traits only became more ferocious as he grew older and he made it clear to his hapless and hopeless parents that he had no intention of simply being a farmer. When he was twelve, he left his home to join the church of Amaunator in Dagger Falls. It was through time spent in the libraries there, going through scroll after scroll and book after book that he learned more of the history of Daggerdale and his appalling family history. He was embarrassed by it and nearly paralyzed by it. There were people that he encountered that knew of his family line; that knew how far his family had fallen and how his family had contributed to one of Daggerdale's darkest periods. No doubt they expected just as little from him if not worse.

The need to reclaim the once proud history of the Warburton name burned inside of him like a star. He fully believed in the good that the theocracy had already accomplished in Daggerdale and having learned of the betrayal that his ancestors had taken part in only served to make him believe even more strongly in what the church was trying to accomplish.

There was something different inside of Iolus and it allowed him to simply \"feel\" Amaunator when others that worshipped the Sun God needed to pray to Him to receive his boon. Iolus simply reached out to his God and his God was always there for him. In time, he hoped that it would allow him to reclaim the honour that his ancestor, Tiberius once displayed as well as making Daggerdale resilient to the atrocities that went on in its past.
