[RAW - UNEDITED AND UNREVIEWED - extracted by automated process, not yet verified for accuracy or completeness]

Early on the morning of the 28th of Eleint, two young men ride into Shadowdale from Dagger Falls, insisting that they speak to a Master Balak.  "We bear missives from Lord Horgath!"  Taking a brief respite from his hearth, Balak receives a pair of letters and a sack of coins from one of the envoys before they head into the town with more letters.
------------
Master Balak,
Please read the enclosed letter to my your brother Dalak, and ask young Timfast if he has been keeping my old friend to the diet I prescribed.  His ill temper notwithstanding, it is of paramount importance that Dalak be confined to oats and whey until he has a chance to recover from his recent near-disembowelment.  Remember - he is to be strictly (and I am deadly serious it) forbidden alcohol - ESPECIALLY his gutshaker.  Remind Brother Turan that your brother is to be given double (triple if necessary) dosages of Calishite laudanum should he become irritable.  I have enclosed fifty Sembian crowns to cover the expenses that he will no doubt (have already) run up with the Order of the Lambent Rose.

Additionally, I must apologize on the matter of my armour.   Present circumstances prevent me from returning to Shadowdale for the foreseeable future, and I have recently come into a bounty of plate armour hear in Dagger Falls.  You may sell my armour at your convenience, and I trust that your profit will cover the cost of the repairs.

You may also wish to inform Lord Amcathra of the events described in my letter to Dalak.
What doesn't kill you...
Brother Grey
--------------------------
Dear Dalak,
It is nearly over, my friend.  I trust that your health has improved under Brother Turan's conscientious care and Timfast's cookery.  I don't need to tell you...  On second thought, I'll remind you that the wounds you suffered at Freedom Hill last week were grievous indeed, and your life is still in the balance.  This time next year we may be able to share an ale together, but ONLY if you follow Brother Turan's medications and keep your head.  I intend to see you hale and healthy when my work is done.

I wish to tell you that Baron Drake, the daemon we fought at Anathar's Dell, is dead and the Church of Iyachtu Xvim in Dagger Falls is broken.  If I get ahead of myself, it is to spare you the suspense, which is not beneficial to you in your condition.  I will tell all in turn.

Following our return to Dagger Falls with the refugees from Yarkul's regime, one of the refugees told Lord Mourngrym about the destruction of the Church of Bane in Dagger Falls by the forces of William Cormaeril.

At the same council meeting where the refugee's story was heard, we learned that ____ [Blackie will have to fill this in, I can't remember it, but it was a note that the flying snakes had brought to Loudwater after we kicked the Zhent mage out of there].  The Harper agents Garrick Shining and ________ [Again my memory escapes me] had set out only a week after us, coming southeast through the Goblin Marches rather than through Anauroch with their news.  They also brought the unhappy news that only seven Harpers remained in the Western Realms.

Boregar, too, brought news.  An agent in Dagger Falls indicated to us through a secret missive that the city was still rife with corruption and fear.   While Cormaeril pressed negligently on with reforms and grand plans to ally the New Dagger Falls with Cormyr and Yulash - (Thagdul's new stomping ground), daemons walked among the citizens, and the murderous cultists of the Baneson brazenly flouted the new laws, kidnapping unwary citizens and keeping them as slaves.

With the mysterious slabs making their way ever deeper into the desert, Sparrow sought the advice of Lady Mystra, and divined that we would have no hope of catching them before they reached Addis Babar, the largest of the Zhents' Anauroch outposts.  Dorian and I disagreed on the best course of action, but with the counsel of Boregar, Gaebril Tremalkin, a holy warrior of a strange faith, and Garrick Shining, the Harper agent you will remember from Loudwater, we decided to cleanse Dagger Falls for once and all.

Following the council, we were to get some rest before heading north at noon.  I had barely caught my first wink of sleep in 48 hours when Dorian burst into my tent to tell me that Sparrow was both in grave danger and missing.  I know not how the warning came, but Sparrow was nowhere to be found.  A hurried search was organized, and with a presence of mind that still surprises me, I tracked Sparrow to the Old Skull Inn, where patrolling guards had seen him head in the company of a beautiful woman.

En mass, our party charged into the inn and up the stairwell only to find ourselves confronting an obviously ensorcelled member of Shadowdale's emergency militia.  Our friend Dorian, hardly the most level-headed of men these days, failed immediately and spectacularly in his attempts at negotiation and began to scuffle with the man.  I ran downstairs with Boregar to enlist the aid of any spellcasters who considered themselves decent enough to come to our aid and I am surprised and sorry to say that only one soul in the bar saw his duty clearly.  By the time we reclimbed the stairs, Gaebril and Dorian had forced their way through the door that Sparrow and the woman were sequestered behind.  I came to the doorway just in time to see her figure sprout wings, let out an inhuman screech, and launch upwards, smashing through the skylight.

While Garrick fired an arrow up at the quickly diminishing beast, I bade the spellcaster dispel whatever magicks lay upon Sparrow.  But even as his eyes cleared, I could see that his movements were growing sluggish.  I suspected that the foul thing had poisoned him in some way.  When I asked him, he indicated that it was so.  I quickly jammed my index finger down his throat to induce vomiting, and, satisfied that he was safe, helped him down to the bar.  By now, the inn had emptied to watch whatever succubus or harpy that had been preying on our friend fly quickly north, towards Daggerdale.
Our course was clearer than ever.
At noon we set out for Dagger Falls, arriving the following morning.  Sparrow was afraid that he would be recognized at the gate, but whatever forces had issued the capital interdiction against his return had evidently not passed the order on.  (Happily, Sparrow's spellcasting ability has not diminished with the loss of his hand - whenever he attempts to cast a spell, a phantasmal hand of blue light appears to work the somatics - truly a sign of his sanctity, at least in Mystra's eyes).  Passing through the gate relatively unmolested, we sought out the to the north where we were to meet a contact of Boregar's at a pub outside the gates.  (Why must we always seek out these houses of sin?  Would it be too much to ask to meet a contact in a church once in awhile?).  I must admit that certain among us were not very circumspect about our inquiries, which may have had dire consequences that I will speak of soon.

Investigating the town, we confirmed that though Yarkul had fallen, the evil grip of the Zhent churches still held sway.  Boregar, as the official ambassador of Shadowdale, sought an audience with Lord William.  Though Cormaeril could not command the sacrifice of his guardsmen, and would not allow any volunteers, he indicated that, should we take up arms with the Xvimites, his forces would not intervene.  I will tell you that I do not like this petty little man.  Not only did he force his own cowardice on his men, who could not have refused duty's clarion call to rid the Dale of the Baneson's evil taint, he played us against the Xvimites without committing himself to either hand, seeking, no doubt to ingratiate himself with whatever force proved victorious.  A Cormyrean by birth, he seems every inch the bastard son of a Sembian and a Zhent.

With Cormaeril's distinctly pusillanimous blessing, we waited while Sparrow did reconnaissance on the Xvimite temple.  It was locked solid, without windows, having only metal doors, and being completely encapsulated with both stone and metal, it seemed impregnable.  Before long, Xvimite priests appeared as from nowhere and began to work their magic against us.  Immediately, Dorian and Boregar charged, while Garrick, Gaebril and I put our backs to one another and began to face off against the companies of armsmen that came at us from either direction.  With his battery of spells, Sparrow ran an impressive but conservative guerrilla campaign as support.

For over an hour we fought, with darkness, paralysis and the curse of the Baneson laying on us like a foul haze.  But we did not tire, and our courage did not flag.  But just when we thought the infidels might break, a gong sounded, the remains of the force let out a hoarse cheer, and the Baron strode from the opening doors of the temple, flanked by ten experienced warriors.
Without hesitation, Sparrow through a fireball into their midst.
Horribly burned, all but the Baron retreated into the dark fastness of the temple, shutting the doors in front of them.  Though Garrick, Gaebril and I were still engaged with the warriors, Dorian rose to the challenge of fighting Drake, his confident swagger unchecked by the cambion's foul presence.  My memories of the battle become hazy, but I know that Garrick broke from our circle to attack the Baron and was cut down, though whether by the Baron or a craven armsman I know not.  Sparrow barely managed to bandage his wounds in time to save his life.  Were he not with me now, I should have said he died.

Soon Gaebril too broke from the fight and confronted the cambion with Dorian.  I could see nothing from where I stood, all being concealed by the foul thing's darkness, but when the darkness cleared, Gaebril had fallen, and Dorian danced with the daemon alone.  By now we fought on the strength of our potions alone.

For what seemed an eternity, I was facing off against three trained warriors, Boregar with another two and Dorian seemed at an impasse with Drake.  Then, in a critical instant, the Baron lunged at Dorian and overcorrected, and Dorian's returning blow nearly cleaved off the daemon's arm.  Seeing our chance, I broke from the circle and took a few short steps towards the prostrate thing to bring Raventooth down on its black and battered head, cleaving it off.  (Though I meant no offense, Dorian has been quite curt with me since this decapitation.  Apparently I stole 'the glory' of the moment from him at his finest hour.  I cannot honestly comprehend how someone's code of honour would see necessary bloodshed as glory, and not as a hideous last resort).

With a look of shock on its face, the daemon's body collapsed.  Immediately, its armour and weapon began to bubble and sublimate into foul mist.  The remaining Xvimites broke, hard.  But I do not think they escaped.  While we began to take stock of the situation, Boregar brought Drake's head to Cormaeril, who seemed overawed.  People began to float back into the streets to marvel at what we had done, and the guard quickly organized to finish the job and force open the gates of the temple.  At length, it was done.

Never have I been involved in so fierce or lengthy a battle, and never again do I want to see so much bloodshed.  I have a new appreciation for the stalwartness of your kind, my friend, and a new sadness in knowing what sort of life you live.  May Ilmater let my blessing upon you be heard.  We managed to rescue the men who had been enslaved in the bowels of the temple, and through no small degree of argument with that bastard Cormaeril, I was able to commandeer some supplies and care for their upkeep, at Dagger Falls' expense.

Unfortunately, early in the afternoon, we discovered the fresh corpse of Boregar's contact.  Evidently he had been murdered while the battle raged.  Dagger Falls is still without true peace, and I fear it will never be.

As for our current situation, I will be as informative as I can.  Dorian has left us, and I do not know if he will return.  His plans for the future have varied erratically over the last week.  I hope to see him again, but will leave it to Tymora to see that our paths cross again.  Gaebril and I, and perhaps Boregar, are heading into the desert in pursuit of the slabs, and I intend to hunt Grandfather to fulfill my pledge to Ilmater.  Garrick's plans are uncertain, though I expect he will accompany us.  As for Sparrow, he has decided to reconsecrate the Xvimite cultists' den and build a temple to Mystra and Lathander in partnership with Cormaeril.  I pray that they are successful.

We have accomplished so much in the last months, and yet so much more is before us. Of the four of us who crossed the desert together, I am comforted that you, at least, have achieved peace, though at great cost.  I wish you and Balak all the best and bid you take care.  Boregar and Dorian have much to deal with, and I cannot escape the feeling that our destinies are still linked with Dagger Falls and Anauroch.  For myself, doubt plagues me like a shadow, stronger now that the path seems clear.  I had another vision from Torm yestereve, urging me again into the desert, away from Dagger Falls.  There is yet to be a reckoning.
Ilmater guide us all,
Maturin