==2 Marpenoth - West in Pursuit ==
thumb|400px|The Eastern Storm rides into Anauroch in pursuit of the Tablets
As the citizens of Dagger Falls celebrated their first true Harvestide festivities in over two decades, the Eastern Storm remained in town only until after breakfast of the 2nd of Marpenoth, when their supplies and preparations were at last complete. Accompanied by an honour guard which included Lord William Cormaeril, his hearth guard, and literally hundreds of citizens - among whom could be counted their old comrades Sparrow and Dalak, as well as Balak, Hob and Timfast, who had taken over the management of the Red Rock Tavern in the newly liberated town. Bidding their friends farewell, the companions took to the open road, traveling as light and as fast as they could. They intended to catch the Beholder Tablets, which had a dearly-purchased lead of twelve days on the companions.

Inevitably, perhaps, the festive atmosphere that the party carried with them from Dagger Falls was soon cut short - only a half-day's journey out of town. The riders were ambushed by Gumbottom's Guard, the hill giant division of the Fist (5th Company) who were now being led by the murderous Yin-Xu. The ogre-mage's crafty leadership nearly proved effective enough to turn back the heroes of the Eastern Storm. Nevertheless, though several members of the party were hurt badly - especially Garrik, who caught the business end of a giant's spiked club, they managed to bring down enough of the giants to rout the company - though Yin-Xu escaped yet again. Clearly, the road was still being watched by the forces of the Beholders, and the journey to come would not be easy.

==5 Marpenoth - Deus Ex Chessenta ==

thumb|Danger on the Road to Addas Babar|400px
The journey towards the desert was quiet thereafter - at least for a few days. On the morning of the 5th, however, as the riders were approaching the desert, they came up against a foe which proved almost lethal. Riding through the foothills of the Desert's Mouth Mountains, the heroes saw a strange, gnarled tree at the side of the path, and heard a whispering, guttural voice trying to persuade them to turn back. They soon realized that the voice came not from any creature in the tree, however, but from the tree itself. \"You must turn back - I will kill you if you do not.\" All felt the strange enchanting pull in the tree's words, but the heroes' resolve did not fade. As they tried to ride past the tree-like creature, however - which they soon saw to be not a tree, but a fleshy, tentacled ocular (an overseer) - four tentacled centipede-type creatures (directors) swarmed out of the undergrowth and attacked the party. Before long, the heroes were paralyzed by the creatures' poisonous bites, and the end seemed nigh. Were it not for the sudden arrival of the Entropists, all would have been lost.

The two proved very adept at dispatching the creatures that had so challenged the Eastern Storm, and set to administering an antivenom that was effective against the poisons that coursed through the companions' veins. The creatures, they explained, were beholder-kin, dangerous opponents to be sure, but the men had devoted their lives to the extermination of such vermin, and were well-versed in the habits of the oculars. The two men, last seen in the region by Dorian, introduced themselves to the companions as Amon and Szuth, of Chessenta, a land far to the south across the Sea of Fallen Stars. They explained that they had been in pursuit of the Tablets, but upon reaching the badlands that bordered Anauroch, had realized that they were not equipped for desert travel. They had turned back, hoping to find a way West through the dangerous lands to the south, and had been returning to Dagger Falls when they came across the companions. From the Chessentans, much was learned about the beholders who lurked at the heart of the Zhentarim conspiracy. They explained that Zantiid and Xulla were simply 'second rank' beholders, and that they sought that which they called \"The One\", which they were sure was accompanying the tablets through the desert. When asked about the staves, the men admitted familiarity, but professed little knowledge of their import or origin. The two seemed most determined to get to the Tablets, however, but the Eastern Storm could sense that more of the foreigners' purpose was hidden in their silences than spoken in their words.

The two did possess some more concrete intelligence, however, namely that a man by the name of Colonel Jol Dax had command of Addas Babar. Dax had been an adventurer, but his name had dropped from repute after he returned from an expedition to Myth Drannor with what in the opinion of many was an accursed axe. At the Zhent outpost, Dax ran the 17th Company of Fist mercenaries. In a tone that seemed to offer some grudging respect to the man, the Chessentans noted that \"he keeps no mage\", indicating their antipathy towards magic-users. This made the heroes feel slightly ill at ease, as they had - perhaps unwisely - told the men that the beholder staves were in the possession of Thagdul, Beljuril and Jafar.

Maturin asked the men about a curious beholder-shaped amulet he had acquired. They said knew its make, and that it was a charm that offered protection from magic missiles. In fact, they offered to trade five potions of magic resistance to the warrior in exchange, but Maturin declined the offer.

The two parties spent the night together near the site of the ambush, and the autumnal chill deepened. There were no stars or moon, for clouds blanketed the sky. By morning, it had begun to snow heavily. Winter was coming fast. On the morning of 6 Marpenoth, the travelers parted ways, each party wishing the other good hunting - and hoping that the farewell was not a final one.

== 11 Marpenoth - The Liberation of Addas Babar ==
thumb|400px|Addas Babar of old
thumb|400px|Addas Babar under Zhent occupation
Before long, the Eastern Storm had blown into the desert lands of Anauroch once again, five riders bringing with them the same gale of retribution that had laid waste to the Zhentish plots in the Dalelands.

Just as the badlands begin to give way to sands and dunes, the desert traveler will find the citadel of Addas Babar, perched high upon an island of rock overlooking the first oasis on the long road through the desert. It was a plume of smoke from this great outpost that the companions first saw in the distance as they rode west along the desert path. They had decided that they would not circumnavigate the outposts on this return journey across the desert, for Boregar was on a holy quest to put to rights all the wrongs he had left behind - and for the men of the Eastern Storm, the quest or quarrel of any one member was addressed by all.

So it was that liberation came to Addas Babar. The heroes struck at midnight on the 11th of Marpenoth, and though their carefully laid plans were soon wrought asunder by the resistance of Dax's Axes (the 17th Fist) and two other companies (Drupar's Lances, Calishites who made up the 18th Company, and Klangedin's Hammers, ogres of the 6th Company), the mercenaries ultimately succumbed to the raging storm, and the fortress was broken.

As dawn came to the desert on the morning of the 12th, the doors of the last of the slave pens that had so long imprisoned the poor indentured souls whose labour had fortified the great citadel were wrenched open, and the men and women behind them were finally freed. The slaves presented a problem for the heroes, however, for they could not very well escort the refugees back to Dagger Falls now. As the day progressed, however, Maturin realized that these men and women had been tolerably well-treated, and were relatively hale. The mercenaries had laid in plentiful supplies for the winter, and the fortress was well-stocked. Furthermore, few of the freed captives were Dalesmen, and many had no wish to travel to lands even further from their homes - indeed, for many, Addas Babar was the only home they knew. The refugees and companions came to the mutual decision that the refugees would stay on, manning the fort against invaders until spring, when new trade might come through and the once-famed markets of Addas Babar could become lively once again.

Of the supplies taken on by the Eastern Storm here, two are worthy of note. The first was the weapon known as Malar's Maw - the great battle axe which Jol Dax had retrieved from fabled Myth Drannor, and which was taken in hand by Garrik Shining. The second
was Klangedin's Hammer, a mighty 2-handed hammer with a solid heft which Maturin found to be to his liking. None questioned the warriors' right to their spoils, and so the Storm grew mightier. After another day of recovery, the five men rode out again on 14 Marpenoth, continuing west towards their next appointment - at the Hanging Rock of Bhaerlith.

== 17 Marpenoth - Dead Men on the Road to Bhaerlith ==
thumb
On 17 Marpenoth, the story of the beholder tablets took a strange turn as the companions came across the desiccated remains of an entire company of Fist mercenaries - identifiable by their insignia as the 9th Company, which had been comprised exclusively of Cyricist assassins. Twenty corpses were scattered along the road, mostly cleaned of flesh by desert scavengers. These dead men told no tales - but asked many questions. (Boregar's observations on the fate of these men would later inform a confidential Harper report on the subject of the Ocular Alliance).

By the companions' reckoning, their tarrying in Dagger Falls and Addas Babar, while profitably spent, had cost them dearly in terms of time. From the freed slaves in Addas Babar, they had learned that the Fist caravan that accompanied the tablets, led by Commander Harrington, had passed through Addas Babar at the beginning of the month. By Boregar and Garrik's estimation, that put the tablets twenty-five days ahead of the heroes, and as the winter weather set in and made passage across the desert an even more grueling prospect than that of their crossing the months earlier, there seemed to be little hope of closing the gap. Nevertheless, there was no choice but to continue on along the Black Road, which was to take them next to Bhaerlith - the outpost they had narrowly escaped that summer. They had learned that the Hanging Rock was under the control of a wizard named Kalindroth, known to be an urban fellow from the western coast, and most likely Waterdhavian. The 15th and 16th Companies of Fist were stationed there - assuming that they had not joined the caravan as it passed through - and resistance would be fierce should the Eastern Storm think to attack. Still, the fortress was weeks' ride ahead, and there was ample time for strategizing.

== 7 Uktar - Freedom Comes to Hanging Rock ==
thumb|450px|Bhaerlith is liberated
Following the grisly discovery of the remains of the 9th Fist, it took exactly two rides - twenty uneventful days - for the companions to reach Bhaerlith, where they reined in their horses as the sun set on 7 Uktar. The companions were in fine form, and this time Eastern Storm broke without warning, charging up the sheer slope of the rock thanks to a spider climb enchantment. When a Zhent wizard - Kalindroth himself, wielding Boregar's old pistol - flew out to snipe at them from the sky, Gaebril was able to quickly dispel the man's flight spell, and he crashed to the earth. Maturin, Garrik, and Gaebril continued the charge while Boregar and Dorian went to finish off the pesky mage. Though he had survived his fall, and though he wielded flaming sphere and a summoned swarm of bees to great effect against the pair, Kalindroth was soon brought low by the force of Boregar's staff across his pate. Atop the keep, Gaebril, Garrik and Maturin fought bravely against entire companies of men, but were soon in desperate straits. One of Gaebril's opponents landed a lucky blow, hamstringing the paladin, and Garrik was nearly killed when a soldiers' blade slipped between his armour. Maturin saved the man's life by grabbing him and leaping off the parapets to the ground thirty feet below - a fall that very nearly killed both men, but which gave then enough time to quaff magical healing potions, then charge the stables where the Fist mercenaries - their numbers swelled by a squad of orcs - made a stand.  It was to be their last.

Bhaerlith had been a difficult conquest, heavily fortified and well-defended. Yet it too had fallen before the winds of the Eastern Storm. As they had done at Addas Babar, the heroes freed those souls who were imprisoned in that desert stronghold, and after ensuring that the men and women were able to look after themselves, they made ready to leave after a day of rest.

In fact, many of the ex-slaves were devout followers of Ilmater, and though Maturin had clearly been excommunicated, they took it as a sign that they too should isolate themselves and endure the lonesome desert. They stayed on under the guidance of an Ilmatari named Gulmish, and to this day, the Abbey of Bhaerlith remains dedicated to the Crying God. The wandering priest, Shildevan, came to the abbey not long after the Eastern Storm moved west. His wanderings came to an end there, for a time, and he assumed leadership of the flock for many years to come.

The victory at Bhaerlith yielded many spoils to the heroes, not least of which was the Gond Pistola, which was recovered and returned to Boregar. Many other powerful weapons and enchanted items accompanied the artifact, including:

* A mithril longsword +2/+1 – Dorian
* A mithril/starstone longknife +2/+2 – Gaebril
* A mithril/starstone +2/+2 hand axe – Gaebril
* Kalindroth’s cloak, marked with sigil of some kind – Garrik
* An ornate double-edged serrated dagger – Dorian
* A fire opal ring – Matuirn
* A shield – Maturin
* A ring bearing the symbol of Torm – Boregar
* Kalindroth's spellbook – Garrik

== 26 Uktar - The Madman of Olomaa ==

Travel through the desert after Bhaerlith was somewhat easier than the heroes remembered from their experience that past summer, though Boregar worried that they would not make it out of Anauroch before winter. Even the native nomads of that land, the Bedine, choose to brave the perils of the upper Underdark during the winter months, rather than face the harshness of Anauroch’s cold season. Still, the companions made good time, for they were both more experienced desert travelers and better and more effectively supplied than they had ever been before. Even Gaebril and Garrik, who had never had occasion to travel the sands before, were quick to learn the secrets of desert travel, and the party fairly flew across the sands.

Though they had expected to face another difficult confrontation at the third outpost at the oasis of Olomaa, which they knew now was the desert bastion of Cyric, their arrival was greeted not with force but with a curious desolation. The fortress, formidable when they had parleyed there for poisoned water months before, lay now in ruins, with nary a soul to greet the companions. However, Boregar soon spots a wisp of smoke coming from the ruins of a desecrated Cyricist temple, and further investigation soon flushed out a half-crazed madman, lurking in the ruins of a desecrated Cyricist temple, where he had been boiling a stew of some kind. In disgust, Boregar noted that the man had been stirring his foul dish with a human femur - and from the remains around the cooking area, it seemed that the man had been a cannibal for quite some time.

=== The Dark Ruse Revealed ===
right|200px
The man was obviously a Cyricist - beneath the black cowl he wore, his face was painted with ashes that created the effect of a skull. When questioned, he gave his name as Ful'zan, the former ranking priest of Cyric at the fortress. He seemed sullen and distracted until Boregar was joined by the rest of his comrades. When the madman saw the faces of the rest of the party, he launched into a cackling rant. \"They came, but we murdered their friends. I could not stop the Tyrant. He killed everything!\" Spittle spraying from the man's lips, his rolling eyes swiveled towards Maturin, and suddenly recognition, anger, and cunning showed on his face. Hopping up onto a crumbling wall like some kind of desert ape, he jabbed a gnarled claw in the former paladin's direction and hissed \"You didn’t leave when you were told! Now you can’t catch it!”

At this, Maturin cried out and drew his axe, moving towards the man. Still cackling, Ful'zan leapt down from the wall and scrambled towards the recesses of the temple, where he seemed to walk directly through a stone wall, seconds before a ball from Boregar's starwheel pistol ricochets off the very spot. Further investigation revealed that the wall was indeed solid, and when the party moved outside, Gaebril recognized that a wyvern watch had been placed on the spot where the priest had passed through it. Though the Sharran paladin was able to dispel the ward easily, there was no sign of the man, save for a couple of zombies which stumbled mindlessly around in the desert dust. Ful'zan's trail had disappeared.

The companions stayed on for a day to burn the remaining corpses of the fortress' former inhabitants, and to complete the desecration of the ruined temple. All were pensive, as they tried to make sense of the fate of the Cyricists - first the 9th Fist, now the brethren of Olomaa - but Maturin, for one, was in a bleak mood indeed. It seemed clear now that the visions from ‘Torm’ that had been visited upon him back in Dagger Falls had in fact been from Cyric himself, posing as Torm - as indeed was the Dark Sun's wont (the ‘Fool Knight’ being His favourite god to impersonate). All along, it seemed, it had been Cyric's will that the companions follow the Tablets, thereby leaving Morgul's church in Dagger Falls alone. Though the Eastern Storm had chosen to stamp out that nest of evil before moving into the desert, Maturin felt himself further disgraced and ashamed. In Dagger Falls, he had been sorely tempted to pursue the tablets - for a time, he had felt that in following the tablets, he was serving both Torm and Ilmater. That he had not, in fact, betrayed his god, however, was a cold comfort.

== 26 Nightal - Return to Vuerthyl ==
thumb|400px|The great duel, immortalized in the Harper ballad, [[The Ballad of Maturin and the Lion]]
Weeks later, towards the end of the year, the companions finally reached the ruins of Vuerthyl, the oasis where a great calamity had been visited upon them the year before, their strength ebbing and supplies near exhausted. Though Boregar, Dorian and Maturin loathed the place and feared the memories it summoned, Auril had finally dug her claws into the desert, and the companions could make no further progress. The winter solstice had passed days earlier, and Boregar guessed that a half day's journey through the desert winter could kill them. They were trapped. They grudgingly began to prepare the ruined keep for their occupation throughout the long months to come. Maturin, however, worked restlessly, for he could feel that somewhere nearby, Grandfather awaited him.

Four days after their arrival, late on the Eve of the New Year, as the full moon broke through what had until now been heavy clouds and snow, the Grey Knight saw the eye of Muir’Quaggoth in its radiance. As the great emerald eye stared down, a distant roar was heard off in the desert, and Gaebril and Dorian hastily did what they could to equip Maturin for the fight. Another roar came howling on the wind, then another, closer each time. Soon, a great lion - which could only have been Grandfather - let out a roar just outside the doors of the cabin in which the companions had made their home. Maturin took the floor, girded and braced for battle, and bade his friends to wait at the stairs. Grudgingly, they stepped back, for though they were concerned for the knight's welfare, they knew that the coming battle could but be between Grandfather and Maturin alone.

=== The Knight and the Lion ===

The door crashed open, and as the great lycanthrope stood snarling on the threshold, Maturin called the beast out:

14Grandfather! In the name of Ilmater, I call you out and command you to lie down before me. I command you to repent your wrongs and forsake your evil god. I accuse you, scion of Muir-Quaggoth, of carnage immeasurable. Your legacy of pain and suffering lies heavily upon Faerûn, and I, Maturin Horgath, have come here to cleanse it. In the name of Ilmater, in the name of those who have suffered, in the name of all that is holy and good; Repent - and prepare to be destroyed.

Grandfather growled low and strode into the room. The two god-fated combatants stared at each other for a moment, then the Lion sprang! It can be said that from the very outset of the struggle, things looked horrible for Maturin. He was knocked over and pinned almost immediately, and the giant lycanthrope pinned his prone form with its great golden bulk. The lion bit deep into the knight's exposed flesh, tearing and tearing with its massive jaws. All the while, however, the knight was pulling the beast onto the silver-plated spikes upon his breast plate, making what attacks were allowed him with the Lathkule blade. Time and again he thrust the blade up into the beast’s belly, striking true each time. Maturin's companions watched each strike, each roar, each swipe of the lion's claws with growing consternation. Surely the knight could not last much longer. At length, Grandfather gave a great roar before delivering one final bite to the knight, tearing deep into his neck. At the same time, aided partly by the force of the lion's strike, Ratbiter sank deep into the lycanthrope's chest. Both combatants collapsed into a bloody heap, ceasing their struggle.

=== Ilmater's Grace ===

Maturin's figure was hardly perceptible beneath the giant beast, and for long minutes neither he nor the lion moved. When his companions rushed to his side and hefted the heavy monster off of him, however, they found him to be still breathing. Maturin drew breath with a shuddering gasp, and his companions helped him to his knees. Though he was covered in blood, both his own and that of the lion, they were still able to make out the shape of a gray tear that had appeared in the corner of the knight's right eye. He remained kneeling for what seemed like an eternity, his chest heaving as he came to terms with his victory. Eventually, he steadied himself with the bloodied blade that had slain the huge lion that lay lifeless at his side.

As he looked up, the grey tear sparkled for just a moment, and as it did so, a scraping was heard at the wind-assaulted door. The knight's mighty steed, Warburden had returned, and the beast stepped in to nuzzle his master's bloodied head. With what strength he had left to him, the weary knight raised one bloodied gauntlet to stroke the beasts great face in silence, while his scompanions looked on, equally speechless, until Dorian was heard to whisper “Ilmater be praised”.

This final portion of the Daggerdale Expedition is most eloquently told through the words of the Grey Knight, found in his memoirs years after these events;
200px|right
14
:'Midst desert dunes, 'neath a green-eyed moon
:I faced the were-lion's wrath;
:Where the desert vales had their secret trails
:For the spawn of Muir-Quaggoth;

:But a Damaran knight is an outlandish sight,
:To rise from Anauroch's haze
:And a night of fear in the Rogue Dragon Year
:Was Grandfather's end of days.
