==The Kingdom of Tethyamar==
I would probably not be writing this as I am, if not for Tethyamar. As I have mentioned, and has been recorded in greater works, the Tethyamar League won the day at the Siege of Lastsun, and effectively ended the war, for now, with Netheril. Netheril took such terrible losses that they could not continue any sort of aggression. Unfortunately, they have never sent a delegation to discuss a truce, so we can only assume that there is more hostility on the horizon, when they have the means to carry it out.

I will add presently that I find it strange that Prince Melagaunt does not sue for terms of any sort; the Netherese princes responsible for other polities have taken a civilized, if devious, approach to politics. Melagaunt seems determined to wipe Daggerdale off the map, whatever the cost.

At any rate, he will have a difficult time of it, now. The East Gate of Tethyamar was discovered in the Gorimdun Mine by the White Cloaks, and this discovery brought life into the movement to unearth this ancient dwarven city. The dwarves showed up in the nick of time at Lastsun, and though they suffered dearly for their ally-saving intervention, they have continued to trickle into the dale ever since. Monthly, more dwarves are added to the population of the dale; at first, they settled up at the Castle as preparations were made to descend into Gorimdun. Before the snows set in, several hundred dwarves descended with what looked like a year’s supplies.

All winter long, reports came back from Tethyamar. They had indeed found the eastern reaches of the Upper Halls of Tethyamar, and had indeed secured them. However, as one engineer explained it to me, it was like they had just found and secured the first inn outside the gates of Waterdeep; there was an impossibly larger city awaiting them. However, it was held against them. The depths of Tethyamar had become a thriving environment of deep-things and undead, and they would have to fight chamber-by-chamber for any further gains.

On the 1st of Marpenoth, 1480 DR, the Tethyamar League officially changed its name to the Embassy of Tethyamar. They still hold a tower in the Castle, and have likewise set up an embassy in the Town as well. This spring, they began construction of a grand fort attached to the outer bailey of Tesh Valley Farm, and as I am told, there is a field full of tents surrounding the place. They are calling this small fort ‘Stationer’s Hall’, and it is to be used as a sort of supply-post for the expedition, and also as a trading post with the dalesmen. It has rekindled the blighted economy of  (see my earlier report on this matter), and brought a good deal of excitement to the region.

Presently, there is a dispute in the ‘Kingdom’. The heirs of the Kingdom have been meticulously traced for the several hundred years of their exile from the city; in fact, they have always made claims of finding the place and resettling it. This has been the stuff of dwarven legend and fancy, until last year. Now the claimants to the throne have come forth. As it turns out, the commonly acknowledged and rightful heir to the throne was one Ghellin Thordbardson of  (the founding and ruling family for the entire duration of dwarven occupation of the city). Ghellin died a decade ago, and left behind two sons; twins. These two, Tasster and Tezster are not on good terms; with the discovery that they would indeed have a kingdom to rule or to split, they have already done the latter. This has divided Tethyamar before it has even been retaken.

I know that Gambledin has done everything in his power to reconcile the brothers, as have many other dwarven political personalities, but the two remain inextricably at odds, and a layer of complication has been added to resettling of Tethyamar.

==Peace and Prosperity in the Dale==
After the Seige of Fort Lastsun was ended, and the forces of Netheril were in full retreat, peace and joy came immediately to the dale. By then, the threat of the Dark Garden was completely eliminated; the roads and farms were as safe as they had been for decades. The war had left a robust military apparatus in place, and when the direct threat from Netheril ended, this apparatus was used to clean house, so to speak.  The mountains around the Castle and the forests around the farms were scoured mercilessly until the snows came that year.  Many of these small campaigns forged heroes and stories to bolster the already-growing collection from the War with Netheril and the Saints’ Battle.  By the time the first snows came, which wasn’t until Hammer of 1481, there wasn’t so much as a single band of frightened orcs left to trouble the sleep of the happy farmers.

The dale had come through dark times, but their emergence from this time was a glorious thing.  The faith of the people in the Old God and the New God was feverish and well-rewarded.  The summer of 1480 lasted until after the Autumnal Equinox, and the final harvests weren’t made until the end of Uktar. I can still taste the apples that came off the trees when there should have been snow a foot deep; they were as sweet and rich as any I’ve ever had, and are the perfect symbol for prosperity in this previously war-torn region.

Of course, it is quite common for there to be a perceived level of wealth and gain after a war; with so many dead, the resources that are left are split between fewer and thus seem greater.  But I could point to precisely-kept ledgers of the Gate Clerks that will show a marked increase in all manner of trade that fall and the spring that followed.  This is partially explained by the influx of migration to Liberty Hill and the dwarves of Tethyamar, but there can be little doubt that Faith has played a significant role here.  Despite the rift that the Dark Garden tried to cause between the Old faith and the New, they were joined together by even stronger bonds during that peace which followed.

The apple tree planted by Chauntea in the dale was bathed in the sunlight of Amaunator, and it produced the ripest fruit imaginable.  This allegory has been illustrated in many recently-crafted songs and poems (some by my friend, Troia Trustar), and in the many weddings in the spring of 1481.  As I have watched the doings of the young people of Liberty Hill this spring, there have been a dozen weddings, and most have been inter-denominational.  It is an encouraging sign, indeed.

The plans of Netheril and the Dark Garden failed, and Daggerdale is enjoying a level of prosperity unseen since Ardelusk’s days.

==The Black Hand of Gaebril Tremalkin==
Zenith Lord Whitegate made a decision about the Black Hand that surprised all.  As I write this, the Black Hand is on display in the Cathedral of Dagger Falls, in the southern transept.  It sits atop a slab of the purest alabaster, and is not under glass, irons or locks.  It sits so that any might go up and touch it, if they dare.  I will back up just a bit, though.

At the conclusion of the Saints’ Battle, and the investiture of Magistrate Harbaugh, that same new magistrate pleaded to keep the relic of the Black Saint beside that of the White, in the cathedral of Liberty Hill.  Bishop Whitegate declared that the threat of someone causing mischief with the Black Hand was something different from the threat of someone causing mischief with the White Blade, should Banitt’s ‘security measures’ prove insufficient.  So, the Black Hand was taken away that day, with Belladonna.

Weeks later, the Black Hand was revealed in its new resting place in the Cathedral in Dagger Falls.  The Zenith Lord agreed partially with Banitt; it would be better to put it on display, and keep no secrets.  He decided on keeping it in town rather than at the farm, siding with his Bishop in this regard.

The Zenith Lord made this proclamation with the revealing of the Black Hand;

:\"Let any who would consider the path offered by Shar come to the Cathedral of Dagger Falls, and there look upon the relic of the one they would call ‘Black Saint’.  Let them stand before the vileness of this thing, and account for themselves the wages of Shar’s service; foulness, corruption of the flesh and the soul, and, ultimately, death at the hands of the Just!  Let them, our enemies, come; I will admit them unmolested into our own cathedral to shake hands with their saint, and if they so choose to keep their dark path, they will be released, again unmolested, until we find them again.  And if they choose to turn away, we will welcome them into the fold then and there!  And let us ourselves not shy from this relic; look long at it every time you grace the cathedral, and consider the ruin that Shar has inflicted on our home.  Look, and remember!”

==Companions==
I should now disclose a lapse in my duties. I wrote to Canoness Majarra in early Kythorn, 1480, asking for an extension of my deployment in Daggerdale, and it was granted in good faith. I had much work to do, wrapping up loose ends in the intelligence and looking at intelligence coming from the front. However, one of the main reasons that I asked for the extension was to be with Magistrate Hoetmer, who, it is now well known, I was romantically involved with. Phin and I spent long hours poring over all of the vast amount of documentation that daily came to us in the Historic Wing of the Yellow Abbey. With the defeat of the Dark Garden, the lines of communication were again reliable and prolific in their generation of reports.

However, Phin’s health started to fail the very night he woke up from his Ætherial Sleep, watching over the reconnaissance of the Farm on Mirtul 26. It was the longest of duration and, he claimed, “most profound” journey he’d ever made in the Æther. To comment on what he did, saw, and how it affected him in the Æther would be pure speculation at this point. Phin never told me, and he kept no notes. I do think he had a terrible time in his dreams, though. His ability to help others inside his journeys came at a cost, and I believe that the effort he put into warning the  about the trap that had been laid for them was the final stroke.

As we worked daily on our intelligences, Phin became gradually more exhausted. On the 29th of Flamerule, just days before the trial of Belladonna, and the conclusion of his travails, he went to sleep and never woke up. If he knew he was going to pass, he never made mention or in any way prepared for it. The very day that he passed, he spent an hour looking over and editing some notes that he made about his theories concerning his connection to Banitt, Iolus, and the others. He never did figure it out, as far as I know. I am sure it is the last thing he was thinking about as he passed.

I was not the last to see him, though. In his final sleep in this mortal realm, he again projected into the Æther, and had a long conversation with Banitt and Iolus, visiting both men in a shared dream. Both of their accounts of this dream are identical. Phin gathered them on a mountain top that Iolus said was familiar to him. He said he was “glad to be at liberty, even if only in his sleep.” Iolus became upset, mostly at himself at this point. He had sworn to get Phin out of the Yellow Abbey, as he thought he was a prisoner there, of a certain variety. Phin did often complain about not being able to wander outside the Abbey at liberty, further suggesting that Lumina and Iolus had been right in their assumptions that the old Magistrate was a prisoner. He just knew too much that the Church could not have leaving the Historic Wing, much less the Yellow Abbey.

At any rate, Phin thanked the two men for their friendship and service to the Dale, and commended them on their faith in Amaunator. They discussed what few unresolved issues there were from the Dark Garden affair, and at length, Phin said to his companions “I see the Sun, it is time to go.” I believe he passed at that very moment, and is now in the Yellow Fields with his Lord.

After the trial and sentencing of Belladonna, I had occasion to travel to . I wished to see the villainess herself, and wanted to oversee the preparations for her incarceration. At this time, the clean-up of the village was complete, and there was already much rebuilding and many pilgrims and immigrants to the village. It was an encouraging sight, to say the least. Most encouraging of all was my welcoming; Troia and Lumina themselves were at the gates, wishing welcome all those that entered. I knew these women from a few meetings before the war, and they immediately warmed to me, and drew me close.

I planned on staying at Liberty Hill for a tenday, to see things through. I ended up staying the winter, and after putting my affairs at the Yellow Abbey in order in the spring, returned to spend my last two months in the dale. I write this very report as I sit at the humble kitchen-table of my friend, Lumina.

During the months of rebuilding and immigration to the village, Troia, Lumina, and I acted as a greeting committee. We would see all new visitors to lodgings and food, show them about, bring them to the cathedral, take care of their children, and so on. We met a dozen new people every day, and helped make arrangements for hundreds of them to move permanently to Liberty Hill. All day, every day, we worked at this task, though it was never a travail of any sort; the three of us were so full of enthusiasm for this job, that we were thankful every new day for the chance to do our part.

And every night, we three stayed together; many nights we would go to the Tower, and entertain the newcomers, or just stroll at leisure. Many nights, though, Lumina was clouded in shadow, and we spent many long nights fighting for her soul. Every new day found her as bright as her name, but I am sure that without our companionship, especially that of Troia, who is a peerless counsellor, Lumina’s soul would have been lost. Every morning, after her ‘matins’, she would mount the stairs of the Tower, and would talk with Belladonna on her prison. Many days she returned from this duty with a shadow just behind her eyes, and these nights, after our day’s work was done, we would, as I have said, fight for her soul.

As I write this, Lumina is mostly recovered; she has very few bad nights now, and I think the routine of facing Belladonna every day, at exactly the same time (twelve minutes after sunrise), is now therapeutic for her, despite the fact that Belladonna just stares back in silent hatred. Lumina has given up most of her worldly possessions, and only keeps a small cottage, in which I shared a room with Troia this past year. She constantly refuses gifts from the people of the village, usually redirecting them to the most needy families, few as they are. I think our battle for Lumina’s soul is won; it has healed along with Liberty Hill. But there is, like Liberty Hill, one dark spot to be found in the place that has been carefully caged and must be vigilantly watched over until the end.

My own darkness was there chased away, as well. Though I had a professional cause to come to Liberty Hill, I was also exploiting the chance to escape the Yellow Abbey for a while. The absence of Phin in that place was heavy on me, and I don't think I would have been able to stay in the Dale as longs as I did, if I had stayed there. At Liberty Hill, my friends addressed my own sorrows, and though I still miss my love tremendously, the counsel I recieved from my friends brought me fully into the beautiful light of recovery.

Of Troia, I will say that a lovelier woman was never born. She is beautiful from the inside, all the way through; she has a soul of pure kindness and she is every bit a credit to Sune. She spreads joy as Lumina spreads light, and I spread learning. The three of us were just the thing for Liberty Hill, to be sure. But Troia had an effect on the people that could not have been hoped for; the weary pilgrims that braved the perils of peregrination and arrived here were met with this profound beauty at the gate, and she took them by the hand, everyone, kissing their hands no matter how road-stained. She sang them through the village; she made many songs to help people to remember land marks, history, people, recipes for pastries, and a hundred other topics. She always cleaned up the children that came, washing them, brushing their hair, giving them new clothes, and so on. I think there wasn’t a soul who entered our gates that wasn’t left feeling as beautiful as Troia herself.

But Troia has one secret that she keeps, from most, if not from us. She spent the three nights of the full moon every month wandering the dark forest around the fields of the farm. She would be gone all night, and come back just before dawn, to the amazement and puzzlement of all. Her nocturnal wanderings were well rumoured at, and known by all. None besides her closest friends, however, knew that she spent three nights a month with her friend, Braxus. Further, none save the sharpest rangers even knew of the benign werewolf’s sentry of the farm (or perhaps just of Troia.) She didn’t openly discuss the matter, and it would take the most insistent prising on the part of Lumina to make her even confess to the matter. Troia always insisted that her friendship with Braxus was platonic and I believe her. Her walks have come to an end, though. She returned early on the first night of her walk in Ches, and wore a complicated expression of grief and joy.

==Farewell to Daggerdale==
As I write this, it is the 15th of Ches, 1481.

I have concluded all of my affairs at the Yellow Abbey, and given thanks and regards to the clergy there. I have offered them hospitality on the Order if they find themselves in our Fair City, and they have likewise insisted that I return as soon and often as I wish. Bishop Whitegate has been a generous host these last two years, and expressed sincere regret that my time in the dales had concluded. After I took care of my (numerous) final correspondences, archivings, and farewells, I made for Liberty Hill for one last tenday of the springtime Sun on the farm.

I was glad to see that Troia was there; her duties with the White Cloaks have kept her away since the weather became warmer, but as promised, she returned for the Spring Equinox, and we have spent much of the day wreathed in all manner of Chauntean decorations; I think I will be days pulling leaves and such from my hair. The air is so warm, moist and rich that it is more like drinking an intoxicating wine than breathing. In fact, I’ve had a bit of both (shame on me, I know). My companions and I spent all day in the sun, watching young women chase young men in Chauntean courtship games, while the adult citizens drink and sing, and the smaller children race about, naked most of them, like little forest imps. Truly a day of fresh beginnings, springtime every bliss-filled moment.

So it seems odd to be leaving on such an evening; when so much is just beginning at the place I now call home, the place I must hasten from. But duty finds me packed and ready to leave again, and I will not record my parting salutations to my friends and my home. My pen will remain forever hopeful of fond returns.
