==Prologue - A Bad Beginning==

Winter continued to linger, but the spirit of commerce quickly overcame even the resilient snows and ice, and the City of Splendours was once again bustling with activity by Greengrass of 1372 DR. Of course, with this economic animation, the plots and schemes of the Darker element of the City began to once again take shape. To meet this challenge, while others valiantly and gloriously pursued the enemy across The Realms, one group of heroes stayed behind to face what seemed but a lingering threat...

Armed with a dossier of information prepared by knowledgeable folk such as Jeryth Phaulkon, Egan, Kennyth Thames, and over a dozen others, those who stayed behind had many leads to follow, but they were plagued from the start by unforeseen difficulties, and things quickly began to go sour.

Particularly problematic were the lack of experienced direction and the mixed temperament of many new faces that took up the quest after the departure of the expeditions to Neverwinter and Daggerdale. Beljuril’s decision to rejoin the Neverwinter Company and Jeryth Phaulkon’s subsequent departure to take care of matters ‘in the east’ left Agamemnon as the sole Harper representative in Waterdeep. Unfortunately, at the time, the wizard was occupied with his own dangerous researches in the City and could provide little help or guidance. Finally, the enigmatic Thagdul had also left early for business in the Eastern Heartlands – before, in fact, he had opportunity to meet with either Phaulkon or Agamemnon – and his alleged proxy, Jafar, vanished without word soon after the Phaulkonmere Council.

Garth, alienated and depressed after the death of his childhood friend Tomas amidst the chaotic events of the previous Harvestide, withdrew from the world, living as a virtual recluse in the manor of Phaulkonmere. Rychel, too, despite having been successfully restored to health by Kennyth after his petrification by Xulla, now felt an unfamiliar stiffness in his limbs, and decided it was nigh on time to retire from the adventuring life. The newest Red Herrings, Brandil and Zeke, disappeared soon after the Council, and there was some gossip that they had been pressed into the crew of a ship that sailed from the harbour on Rhyester's Tide.

The Waterdeep contingent, it appeared, was scattered and broken before a blade was drawn. It was little surprise, then, that the only remaining Council member, Esperel (a mercenary at the best of times), felt little responsibility to take up the mission himself. So it came to be that the only hero left in the city willing to take action was Steele, the unpredictable elven agent of , and a former Warder of Waterdeep.

==Tarsakh 29 - Murder at Gideon's Warehouse==

The days leading up to Greengrass of 1372 were marked with a series of mysterious deaths which were to signal the beginning of the adventure/underground commerce season for the City.

The first of these were a murder and robbery at a Dockward warehouse run by a man named Gideon, an Honourable Member in the Fellowship of Salters, Packers and Joiners and former affiliate of Company Ersgul. Gideon was found hanged in his warehouse, his testicles in his mouth and a symbol branded into his forehead. His eight men were never found, but many bodies had clearly been dragged from the scene. On the same morning, a former Drurginz affiliate, Gotlieb Erlgund (Carters and Coachmen) was found dead and floating in the Harbour with his crew of seven boys. Finally, a foreman with the Waterdeep Stonecutters' Guild named Ersgul Mlshool, (also ex-Ersgul), was later found dead in his well-to-do Castle Ward apartment in the company of a dead drow.

These deaths were not to be the last.

==Greengrass, 1372 – Enter the Drow-hunter ==
thumb|300@x|Samme'Lotharil Daneledril
As the Council of Heroes convened at Phaulkonmere, a distant relation of Esperel - a grim moon elf named Lotharil - had just arrived in the city of Waterdeep. A worshipper of Shevarash, an elven deity whose followers hunted and slew dark elves throughout the Realms, Lotharil had come to Waterdeep to root out the cancerous drow menace that threatened the City from within: the Vhaerhaunian House Dalael. On that fateful Greengrass Day, after securing lodgings at the Inn of the Dripping Dagger, the first thing the elf did was to make his way to the Elfstone Tavern, which he had learned in a letter from his relation was the haunt of a drow fence named Mas'Illyn Vosch. Few of the patrons paid him any notice, however, and his belligerent questions soon got him thrown out. Later that evening, at the Copper Cup, he was approached by an elusive-looking elf who introduced himself as 'Bladetail' (Esperel's disguise fooled even his relative, and it was some time before Esperel revealed his true identity). Bladetail suggested to the newcomer that he would need a patron of sorts, and offered to bankroll Lotharil in exchange for a third of the take from any operations against House Dalael. Lotharil accepted gladly, and the two agreed to meet the next day.

==1 Mirtul – Seeing the Sights==

The next morning, on the Waterdhavian holiday of Rhyester's Tide, Bladetail rejoined Lotharil for breakfast at the Dripping Dagger (though the paranoid elf touched nothing on his plate). As Lotharil ate a hearty meal, Bladetail proposed a meeting with another Waterdhavian elf with experience combatting the drow pestilence, and that afternoon, the two met with the elf known as Steele, a former Warder of Waterdeep. Steele, in turn introduced a human associate he had met through his former colleague, Rychel Voordan – this was Voordan's protégé, a nobleman by the name of Nero Agundar. Bladetail and Steele then led the group on a ‘grand tour’ of the City’s drow-darkened haunts, which included many of the city’s noble estates – notably the villas of the Houses of Wavesilver, Anteos, Dezlentyr, and Umbrusk. Other points on the tour were the ruins of a house in North Ward and the deserted shopfront of Serpentil’s Books and Folios, whose proprietor, Bladetail noted, had not been seen for almost three weeks. Throughout the journey, many had the disquieting feeling that they were being watched, almost as if the City itself were quietly appraising them.

==2 Mirtul - New Friends==
Unbeknownst to the heroes of Phaulkonmere, it is about this time that Sal Worthingham sends word to Grimwald's Rangers, and puts a price on the heads of the Harpers and their allies.

The next morning, Nero met Lotharil at the Dripping Dagger to discuss strategy, whereupon they made the acquaintance of another guest of Filiare’s: the gladiator-priest Marcus of Tempus. It was at this point that the trio became truly embroiled in the saga, for it was here that Rychel Voordan came seeking Nero on behalf of Jeryth Phaulkon. The Harpers, it seemed, were in need of allies to combat the criminal influence of the drow and the Moonsea traders in Waterdeep. Those members of the Phaulkonmere Council that had been meant to cleanse Waterdeep had unaccountably (and in some cases, mysteriously) withdrawn, and Rychel had taken on the duty of assembling a new company.

The former Warder of Waterdeep expected the mission to be a tough sell, but the three agreed immediately, each for their own reasons. Nero saw the promise of wealth and influence, Lotharil the chance to thwart the Brothers Dalael, and Marcus the simple promise of glorious battle. Rychel sent word that afternoon that a meeting with Phaulkon herself had been scheduled for 5 Mirtul.

The companions spent the next day making enquiries and learning what they could about the state of the City in their various haunts - Marcus at the Fields of Triumph, Lotharil among the elves, and Nero among the city nobles.

== 4 Mirtul - The Blades of Korombos ==
thumb|The symbol branded into Gideon's forehead

Early on 4 Mirtul, Steele received word from Bladetail that a Dalael caravan had been waylaid the night before by a group known as the Blades of Korombos. (Korombos is the name of a Netherese rune for 'chaos' - the very same rune, it happens, that had been carved into the severed head of Gideon.) Somehow, Bladetail had also learned that the shipment was slated to be moved out of Dockward on 7 Mirtul by a trading interest called Company Aldebarran on the ship Zulpair's Pride.

Nero spent much of the day making enquiries about the ambush, and the nature of Aldebarran, which he learned was a company only recently incorporated under the direction of a Moonsea trader named Altooth Mzoul. The city was buzzing with rumours of the heist, and learned quite a bit about the Blades of Korombos. They were said to be a group of mercenaries who counted several lycanthropes among their number. One of these, a creature named Ebola, was known to have survived a recent ambush by drow in Fishgut Court. In the course of his enquiries, word also reached Nero about the man known as Gauntlet - the same rogue who had sold out the Phaulkon Cargo (or tried to) to Company Drurginz the year before. Gauntlet was apparently in hiding after his life and that of his family had been threatened by an unknown party. Finally, Nero also turned up a note that apparently connected Altooth Mzoul to the Blades of Korombos.

Nero's investigations brought some clarity to the situation in Waterdeep. The power vacuum in the criminal underworld created with the passing of Drurginz and Ersgul had begun to be filled - this season by the competing interests of Company Aldebarran and Company Dalael, who were in competition for the contracts and connections that had been opened up when Thagdul and Yarkul left the city. This realization led him to speculate on the events surrounding the slaughter at Gideon's warehouse a few days earlier:

<blockquote>Gideon (Salters, Packers & Joiners) is asked by Altooth Mzoul (Aldebarran) to pass a note to Ebola for the leader of the Blades of Korombos to pressure Ersgul Mlshool (ex-Ersgul) into joining Aldebarran. Before he delivers the note, however, Gotlieb Erlgund (Carters and Coachmen) brings some Dalael goods to be repackaged for Sal Worthingham (ex-Ersgul, Company Dalael), along with instructions to arrange an ambush for the Blades of Korombos at Fishgut Court. Instead of passing on the message to go after Mlshool, Gideon arranges the ambush. The ambush backfires, and the Blades torture Gideon until he gives them the name of his co-conspirator, Erlgund. It is possible that Ersgul Mlshool is later found negotiating with the Dalael and killed by the Blades of Korombos.</blockquote>

Privately despairing of the odds he and his allies would be facing, Nero calculated that the best course of action would be to ally with Aldebarran against the drow. He kept such thoughts to himself, for the moment.

==5 Mirtul - New Directions==

The next day, Lotharil returned to the Elfstone Tavern to make amends for his outburst on Greengrass Day and to seek more information on drow activity within the City. After smoothing things over with the proprietor, who treated him to a jar of elvenquist to make the peace, he learned about the drow proprietors of the Unicorn's Horn.

That evening, Marcus, Lotharil, Steele, Rychel and Nero (under the alias of Jacob Fink) met with Jeryth Phaulkon and her companion, a wizard named Agamemnon, at the recently renovated Inn of the Dripping Dagger. Over dinner, Jeryth explained that she would be away for the whole summer, but that Agamemnon would be staying in the City to help out. Agamemnon then gave a contact location, and explained that he would also be busy, but that he was there if needed. He was following up some important leads pertinent to this story.

Much later, in the dark of night, Lotharil began what was to become a regular stakeout of the Unicorn's Horn. Settling in an alley near the establishment, he kept a wary eye on the comings and goings of its patrons. Someday soon, he knew, one would prove to be of interest.

==6 Mirtul - Zulpair's Pride==
thumb|350px|A drow raider gets the drop on Marcus of Tempus
thumb|350px|Marin Adara and the midnight raid
The first conflict to involve the Waterdeep Crew was their ambush of a cargo destined for the trading ship Zulpair's Pride. This caravan had been sold out twice, and, relying on Bladetail's intelligence, the crew intended to see that it would profit neither the Zhents nor the Dalael. In this effort they were assisted by the beautiful and mysterious Marin Adara, a mage vouched for by Steele, but of whom little was ever discovered, for she, along with Marcus of Tempus, was to vanish the following day.

The events that preceded the ambush are complex, and, to some extent, conjectural. In ’71 and ’72, the Watderdhavian noble House of Zulpair was heavily involved in dealings with Company Drurginz, with whom they dealt mainly through the intermediary of Teskul. Teskul, of course, was simultaneously working with Company Ersgul and the Dalael under the guise of Sal Worthingham. Thus, when the Drurginz operation folded, it was simple enough for Teskul to arrange for the Dalael to step in and fill the resulting void. Near Greengrass of 1372, however, Altooth Mzoul financed some information from the Zulpair heir, Gerath, regarding a cargo that was to be shipped north on the ship, Zulpair's Pride. On 3 Mirtul, the Blades of Korombos waylaid this cargo, which had been being transported through the Waterdhavian sewers.

At some point thereafter, however, the location of the stolen cargo had been compromised (likely through a leak in the ), and Teskul had been able to relocate and repackage it without Aldebarran's knowledge. The Aldebarran cargo was then replaced with waiting drow assassins. Information about the cargo being a drow target  somehow got around, and the adventurers responded. Later, Agamemnon would speculate that the Dalael had leaked this information as a means of luring their enemies in Waterdeep into a trap. If this was indeed their plan, it worked.

The heroes timed their ambush to occur as the cargo was being loaded onto the Pride, at two bells on 7 Mirtul. As they sprang the attack, however, silver-sashed drow soldiers erupted from their concealed hiding places. Though the drow onslaught was fierce, the heroes gave as good as they took, and soon beat the villains back - but not before Lotharil was dealt serious injury. During a sword duel with one of the assassins, the drow-hunter was brought low, and collapsed onto the cobbled yard of the harbour. The drow knelt down and sliced off Lotharil's left ear as a victory trophy, and was reaching for the second when the city watch, alerted by Marin Adara, arrived in force, whereupon it bolted with its surviving companions. While most of the drow escaped, those corpses that remained littering the docks, along with the cargo, were placed under the watchful eye of Magistrate Vader.

Fortunately, Lotharil did not die from his injuries, though it was some time before he recovered. Shevarash's plans for his scion were not yet complete, it seemed - the elf's mutilation had only deepened his hatred for the drow, now fuelled by a desire for vengeance.

==7 Mirtul - Agundar Investigates==

The the next day, the heroes met at the Dripping Dagger to discuss the significance of what had happened during the night (Lotharil was confined to the casualty wagon that Rychel had seconded from the Company of the Red Herring). Most felt that the debacle had been a trap - and Marcus, Steele and Nero went so far as to name Bladetail as a Dalael collaborator. Marcus, enraged, severed his connections to the allies' cause, declaring his companions to be no better than the villains they had pledged to destroy. What became of the gladiator after this day is a tale that has yet to be told.
thumb|An ear for an ear.
Though his health had stabilized, Lotharil's ear was still a ghastly sight, and after the meal, Steele and Nero arranged for the elf to be admitted for treatment at the Waterdeep School of Anatomy and Medicine, where the ministrations of the good doctor Gregor Kahsick were able to mystically replace the missing ear - though the replacement quite failed to resemble the original.

Nero resolved to spend the remainder of the day investigating Companies Dalael and Aldebarran, focussing on the former Drurginz and Ersgul associates listed in the dossier prepared by Jeryth Phaulkon and Rychel. His first angle was to talk to members of the , to learn more about the maritime activities of the Dalael and the new trading interest, Company Aldebarran. He discovered that Canton Belzuril (ex-Ersgul) had joined the crew of The Blue Fin Envy, captained by Ailyan the Lady (ex-Drurginz). The only other Waterman to be associated with the two companies, Gwendylin Shiard, seemed not to have involved herself in any suspicious activities. Knowing that the Zulpair Cargo had been transported through the sewers, he also dropped in at the Bowels of the Earth to check up on Thebald Rockfist, a Cellarer and Plumber. The dwarf had little to say, however, save that he had been seeing silver-sashed drow of late, and had been keeping his distance.

His second line of questioning concerned the Waterdhavian nobles, with whom both Aldebarran and the Dalael had established close ties. House Anteos had been fully incorporated into the activities of Company Dalael. The patriarch's younger brother Korass had allied himself with the drow, and the patriarch's former consort, Ranaya, had given birth to a half-drow son, Millathi, fathered by Quevin Dalael. The cuckolded patriarch himself, Dulbrawan had left the villa along with his niece Meghan and her abjurer husband, Tuigan, and was trying to muster his resources against those who had usurped him.

Aldebarran's dealings with the nobles were primarily with the shipping families. The Helmfast family, which had been used in the past by Drurginz to procure ships, now did the same for Aldebarran, while House Moonstar provided warehouse space. He also learned from a contact that one of Ersgul's agents - Yarkul's daughter, Dragon, in fact, had some connection to House Margaster through Arilestar, the daughter and heir of the Margaster Patriarch, Thentias (a former ally of Yarkul's). The Margasters didn't yet seem to have come to an agreement with either the Dalael or Aldebarran.

A final piece of intelligence, which Nero never followed up, concerned the wizard Agamemnon. Apparently, a woman named Sylkie had been making enquiries after the Harper. Who this woman was, and what her business was with Agamemnon, was never discovered. Nero's investigations took him across a wide swath of Waterdeep real estate, and over the course of the day, he twice caught sight of a grey-clad figure who seemed to be following him - but when he tried to confront the figure, the man had disappeared without a trace. Someone, he was sure, had taken interest in his meddling.

As he began to understand the scope of the conflict that bubbled under Waterdeep's streets, Nero realized that whatever strategy the heroes were to pursue - as independents or conspirators - more firepower would be necessary. To this end, he sought out the advice of one Mr. Lockheed, a purveyor of magical items. Nero wrote Lockheed a note which, which was left with a half-elf clerk named Dantyr at \"Blethyr’s Abacus\" in Northward.

==8 Mirtul - An Elven Envoy ==

Around this time, Nero and the elves were approached by a stately elven woman with a strange accent, who introduced herself as Llianin El'telneroth. She invited the companions to Felzoun's Folly, where she told them her tale over a sumptuous Highsunfeast. She had been sent by her mystical masters in the wizard kingdom of Halruaa in search of an ancient codex known as the Encyclopaedae Ocularis Indomitus. In the course of her mission, she had learned that the book was being sought by Quevin Dalael. Naturally, upon learning this, her first step had been to seek out the dark elf's enemies as potential allies in her quest. Of the tome's nature and provenance, she revealed (and perhaps knew) little, but she was sure that it was of utmost importance to keep the book from falling into the Dalaels' clutches. She proposed an alliance with the Waterdeep elves who had banded against the drow (and Nero, whom she barely acknowledged throughout the meal). After the meal, she set out from the Inn, escorted by Lotharil, to secure lodgings in the city.

Steele and Nero, however, had plans of their own.

----

Next: The Day of the Dalael
