This is a dream that Alystair Dretch started having shortly after he came out of the Shadowfell.  He had it several times per week during the late summer of 1479 DR.  Since the events of Harvestide, 1479, this dream has stopped.

---

You are standing atop a high mountain on the eastern side of the Desert’s Mouth Mountains.  From your high perch, you can look out into the Tesh Valley and see the fertile farm-fields and the lush forest that bring beauty to the valley.  
However, before too long, you notice that there are a couple of black spots in the woods.  They appear to be dead trees, but they are not grey like a normal dead tree, but rather pitch black.  These trees begin to appear in more and more places, and over time a pattern appears; as more and more trees turn to black, they begin to form venous looking networks that all snake back towards the town of Dagger Falls.  The town itself is covered in thick black clouds that rain a purple and black rain.

You blink, and you are in the town.  You are in the black and purple rain, and where it touches your bare flesh you are numbed; it is disconcerting but somehow pleasing too.  You have to shake yourself in spite of this sensation, and say a small prayer to Amaunator to grant you your senses and the strength to endure the black soothing rains.

Looking about the town, you can see that a black garden is growing up in just about every spot imaginable.  There are black flowers growing from lawns and window boxes, quickly replacing the native vegetation.  Before long, the flowers are growing through the cracks in the cobbled streets, and from the cracks in stone walls and from beneath the clay tiles of almost every roof.

Before long, the entire town is becoming obscured in the dark garden, and racing from the town to escape the dangerous-looking plants, you can see the network of black-leaved trees that you saw from the distance; they come snaking through the woods and along roads from all directions, sinister and brooding.  The dark garden of the city is now growing out of every gate, and spreads beneath everything, but beneath the blackened trees first.

You try to run from the rain and the flowers and the trees, and find yourself crashing through the woods alone.  You stop yourself short when you see some people in a clearing ahead.  They are all dressed in black night-gowns, and they are leading a white goat, a white cow, and a small girl dressed in a white nightgown into a circle.  You are paralyzed with confusion and fear as you see one of the people lift a huge axe up, and take the head of the goat off in one stroke.  The people begin to chant and to sing a terrible sounding lament, while the cow is lead to the centre of their circle. The cow too is beheaded.   As the blood from these animals begins to flow, you can see that the trees surrounding this glade have all began to turn black, bark, leaves and all.  Now, you see that the little girl is being lead into the circle, and you can watch no longer.  You burst from the trees shouting oaths and curses at the people.  They are startled and turn to face you.  You wade into their midst, laying them low with wild punches, elbows and kicks, fighting your way to those holding the little girl, and the man with the axe poised above her head.

As you finally reach the bloody ritual, one of the women holding the girl faces you with a snarl, and pointing one finger at you, paralyzes you completely.  “You’ll never do this alone, Alystair Dretch.” With that , she begins to cackle an animal-like sound, and the axe falls on the girl.  Her eyes bore into yours with her expression of hurt and betrayal, and as you slowly begin to regain control of your body, the cackling woman rolls her head back, and lets out an even louder cackle, which you now clearly recognize as the cackling of a raven.  In a sudden, she is transformed into a black raven, and flies out of her black night clothes as they fall to the ground, and joins a flock overhead which quickly departs. 
 
With that you awaken.
