The Second Battle at Anathar's Dell 

The night of the 6th, a great conference was held in the Twisted Tower.  Lord Amcathra hosted a meeting with the DE, the knights of the order, and the two leaders of the bifurcated church of Lathander.  There were many discussions as to what was the best course of action.  As well, Sir Soulbright sued for some troops from Amcathra, but he could spare none.  The only Shadow Dalesmen that would accompany the warparty would be a select few priest of Lathander from the Thunderstorm faction of the church of Lathander. 

Early on the morning of the 7th, a war host rode out of Shadowdale the likes of which had not been seen in a score of years.  The three orders, accompanied by the DE set out.  They had a retinue of priests of Ilmater and Lathander in tow, as well as a few Shadowdale men who decided to follow with what arms they could muster.  Cassamar and Amcathra met them on the west edge of town, wished them luck and apologized that they could offer no further aid. 

20 miles later, the war host came to Anathar's Dell.  There, they found the small walled farm village burnt to the ground, and the bodies of the slain Knights of the Broken Blade were strewn about, defiled and rotting.  They were put upon a pyre and given rites by the many holy men there.  Their impetuousness was also cursed at that time.  The order had marched with the orders of the Trinity for many days, but would not abide the pace of the Ilmater tent-train, and thus found their enemies two days too soon. 

While the smoke billowed into the sky, an enemy host gathered on either side of the dell.  To the north, the Knights of the Black Gauntlet gathered.  This is the militant order of the church of Bane, and had just recently been assembled after the resurrection of Bane.  To the south, the more formidable Brothers of the Black Fist, led by Baron Drake assembled.  This militant arm of the church of Iyachtu Xvim had been growing for years at this point, and their main headquarters and training ground was located in Dagger Falls at Brotherhood tower. 

A brutal battle was joined, as the forces of good clashed with the forces of evil.  Paladins of many gods struggled against each other, and in the end it is difficult to say who won or lost.  The Knights of the Black Gauntlet were utterly destroyed, but the Brothers of the Black Fist were merely repelled.  Baron Drake slew several paladins of all three orders himself however, before he thought it prudent to lead his forces from the field.  In the end, the DE and the surviving members of the war host of the Trinity held the field, but at great cost.  And Baron Drake was far from defeated.  He laughed as his demon-steed bore him from the field.   

The battle rager Dalak was nearly killed that day as well.  The Baron delivered a blow that eviscerated the battle rager, and though it did not kill him, it put an end to his fighting days.  He spent the rest of this story convalescing in Shadowdale. 

Anathar's Dell is often referred to as Paladin's Grave these days, for the 21 Paladins that are buried there. 

It is late into the night before the war host marches again, and this is in the direction back to Shadowdale, in acceptance of defeat and set back. 

The next day was a day of many activities.  A council is assembled again.  When the survivors of Anathar's Dell describe what happened to Lord Amcathra, he voices his concern over the absence of the militant order of the Church of Cyric, which is also strong in Dagger Falls.  Cassamar and Thunderstorm get into a heated argument over signs from Lathander, and the right and wrong course of action, and Thunderstorm goes so far as to say that Cyric was not at the battle because he was at work in the heart of Cassamar, who should have sent troops to the battle. 

The Boregar set out that day to get word from his allies in the woods and surrounding country side.  He visited the significant other in his life, Silve Silverhand.  This Harper and daughter of the famed Storm Silverhand was a long time lover of Boregar.  The two had a lasting but intermittent relationship.  The two lived harsh lives that kept them both on the road and apart, doing deeds they received little thanks for.  This day, they met as lovers and as colleagues.  Silve had long ago planted a man in Dagger Falls, and had been receiving correspondence from him for some time.  She received the following bloodstained letter, which she wished for Amcathra to see;
