Excerpted from Dr. Eustace Worthorpe's History Primer for Students of the Humanities, Lord’s University., 1738 edition.

== The Arrival of Men ==

In 1400 BC, the legendary vessel Bram’Cairn arrived in Avilund. It departed from an island which was once well known to Men, but today, we do not even know the name of it, or its exact whereabouts. In fact, since the Repurgo, there isn’t even a useable map of the Archipelago to examine or guess at. However, we do know that Men came from the Eastern Archipelago, and we do know some of the names and deeds of that time. Today, the only document that survives time is the Tale of the Woodland King, which is the account of Ignatius, written upon his journey across the sea, about the events of the Prime Saints. This is not a historical document, however. It is just as it advertises; a ‘Tale’. However, for over 3000 years it has been commonly accepted as being full of more truths than exaggerations, and numerous other documents about the time before the SHA referenced it with reverence. And so it is today that we accept that the Tale is indeed a valuable historical document. Most literate people in Avilund have read this account, and many of those have numerous passages memorized. The clergy of St. Ignatius have, long ago, divided the Tale into many numbered passages like some sort of alchemy text, and it is known that they study the Numerology of the Tale as its own matter. Much of this cabalistic practice is obscure to even the most enlightened and Saintly of scholars here at Lord’s, this author included.

== Tale of the Woodland King ==

left|300px|thumb|Depiction of the Celestial Shower, from an Ignatian manuscript circa 1200 ICThe constituent elements of the Tale must herein be discussed briefly, in case the new Student of Humanities has not had the benefit of reading this most ubiquitous of manuscripts. The Tale begins, like all Early Literature, with a cosmic display of portent. And in this display, one can see why the faithful of St. Ignatius’ began their cabalistic endeavours of numerology. A great meteor shower begins, and it lasts for eleven nights. It pauses for three nights, and then goes on for another eleven nights. It is not within the scope of this text to discuss the impact that these opening stanzas of the Tale might have had on our Society, but it should be obvious to even the slowest of thinkers that the description of this protracted bout of falling comets is the very root of Cabalistic Numerology, the study of which still causes panic even in this Age of Enlightenment. At the end of the meteor shower, Avitus himself is born to a nameless mother. Three years later, his brother Gaul is born. The Tale describes in some brief but poetic detail the early years of the Prime Saint, Avitus. 

=== The Wickedness of Gaul ===

Then, the first of the Lessons begins, with the tale of the struggle of Avitus against his brother, Gaul. Gaul, who covets his brother’s wife, Ruth, plots to take her away. He kills their four children, or at least he thinks he does; Mairin, the nursemaid of the children, steals away with the youngest child, Sever, exchanging her own infant son in order to fool Gaul. When the village elders learn that Mairin has fled and the children of Ruth and Avitus are found dead, it is she that is blamed for the misdeed. This enrages Gaul, who was hoping to frame his brother for the act.

Gaul decides to do something else to ruin his brother’s marriage, and next rapes and kills their sister, Muriel. This time, he is able to frame his brother for the act, and Avitus is subsequently made a criminal, and forced to flee for his life. Avitus manages to convince his father that he did not do this terrible thing, and goes into hiding while his father travels to the village to clear his name. However, Gaul intercepts his father, and learns of his intent to clear his son’s name, and kills the man. Avitus is thus condemned, and he spends the next 33 years wandering in the wilderness. Some theological scholars believe that it is this year that Gaul made his legendary pact with a trio of devils, and that the 3333rd anniversary of this pact will be in 1783 IC. 

The Tale spends a troubling amount of verse describing the happy relationship that Gaul and Ruth enjoy after the departure of Avitus. Ruth is clearly not the same woman after the tragedies that Gaul inflicted upon her, but Gaul manages to deceive her fully, and she does indeed grow to love him, though she has no children by him (though some theological scholars disagree; this is not within the scope of this volume). Eventually Avitus returns with Sever and Muriel, whom he has found in the wilderness, and made amends with. The three of them confront Ruth, and tell her the truth. Gaul learns that he has been revealed as an evil, plotting murderer, and he flees. Ruth and Avitus are rejoined as husband and wife, and they again conceive. By this time, Sever, now known as Severinius, has taken over the role of leader on the Island, as Avitus has sworn to hunt to the ends of the earth to find and destroy Gaul.

=== Return of Avitus ===

After some time, Avitus returns home to find that Gaul has returned in his absence and captured Ruth. Gaul is able to take the form of his nephew and manages to capture Avitus thusly. Avitus is bound and forced to watch Gaul rape and murder Ruth, who is quite pregnant at the time. This is too much for Avitus to bear; he breaks his bonds, and the two brothers fight for a period of time (this time is argued by some to be 3 days, by others 33, and 333 by others yet; again, this theological dispute is not suitable for the limited scope of this volume). At any rate, the end result was that Gaul and Avitus destroyed each other and transcended this world; a theological first. These are the first 2 souls to have supposedly entered the Valley of Death, and embarked upon the Journey Beyond Death.

It should be noted here that Ruth has never been Sainted in the PDF. She is assumed to have died too soon for her soul to embark on the Journey. However, though her name has been kept out of the Prime Pantheon, it has not faded into obscurity, though some Prime Saints have. Worship of Ruth is interdicto fides according to the PDF, but despite the best efforts of two inquisitions and other great measures, she continues to issue forth as whispers on the lips of many women.

=== The Woodland King ===
right|300px|thumb|Mairin and the young Severinius, from an illustrated manuscript of the Tale of the Woodland King, circa 1050 IY

The bulk of the Tale is actually about Severinius. It is Saint Sever that is the Woodland King that the title speaks of, and it is his actions and the actions of his contemporaries that are described in the bulk of the Tale. Shortly after the transcendence of his father and uncle, Sever brings unification to the warring tribes of the Eastern Archipelago, and is the first Man to be called a King. The Tale describes in some length a few important figures; Ida, the Angel Messenger that took on a mortal form to wed Sever, and their children Dunstan, and Sebald. The pantheon of the eleven Prime Saints is further fleshed out in the later parts of the Tale, as it illustrates the lives of some contemporaries of the descendants of Avitus discussed above; Ulric, the rival and companion of Dunstan; Caspar and Caanan, the disciples of Severinius; and Judith, the wife of Sebald. These names should be familiar to even the least Saintly, save the name of Caanan, who, even to this author, is an enigma. It is not within the scope of this volume to discuss the stories of these individuals, remarkable though they may be. It is just important to know that, in the Modern Age, much of what we know about these Saints can be verified only through examination of this document.

Of course, the Tale is the work of Ignatius. The life of Ignatius is probably the most sanguineously disputed topic in theology and theological politics today. Through some documents that have survived the Repurgo, we know that the origins of Ignatius have been debated ever since the Contentio Investatus of 1350 (some scholars are now calling this the Prima Contentio Investatus, in light of modern politics which are, again, outside the scope of this volume). The Canon of St. Ignatius has long held that Ignatius was aboard Bram'Cairn when it crossed the Eastern Ocean and arrived on these shores, and that Ignatius interviewed the likes of Dunstan and Sebald during the crossing. This position makes Ignatius long lived indeed, as he is known to have visited Waldheim and met with the Last Elders over 200 years later. There are records of many men living into their hundreds, but few over 200, and those are all descendants of Ida and Sever (Angelspawn). It is a more popular position amongst the Primus Deus Fidelis that Ignatius came to Avilund in a later journey of Bram’Cairn, and that he was not in fact a contemporary of Sebald, Dunstan and Barnabas. Others yet argue that Ignatius must have been born and raised in Avilund, and that his clear and haunting depictions of the lands of the Eastern Archipelago are but the product of the mind of a prodigy of literature.

* Foward to Mezzo Middle History
* Back to Early History
