From Sir Geofrey Golfschalk's Encyclopaedae Reliquiae Arcanum, 1723 edition.

{{Artifact|Middle, Anatomical|Exhumed December 19, -388|Exhumed and amputated by Bishop Malvoy|The hand is a black and shriveled thing, as one would well expect from a 2000 year old carcass. Though foul to look upon, it gives off a pleasant aroma that defies a consistent description; it has been likened to the smell of roses, the smell of fresh baked bread, crushed ginger, venison gravy, and many other things besides. The Author has not smelled this Artifact.|St Serra was a Knight of the Order of Ulric who fought in the wars against Brogard the Cruel. She was slain outside Dunstanmoore in –450. She was interred in the church’s cemetery for heroes later in the year with all due honour. In –388, Bishop Malvoy of St. Ulric’s, Dunstanmoore claimed to have spoken to her in his dreams on three consecutive nights. On the third morning, he had her exhumed, and it was noted that she had not decayed over the course of her 62 years of interment. In fact, the odour from her casket was pleasing to all who bore witness. Malvoy struck her hand from the rest of her body. It was then taken into the church and displayed with various other Saints and Heroes for some time.|The hand has been used to cure all sorts of ailments throughout the years. It is not capable of healing severe wounds, but is known to cure many diseases and their symptoms. Mention of the Hand of Saint Serra comes often in all sorts of History books, both secular and otherwise.|The present location of the Hand is unknown. It travelled to the Western Theatre in the 4th crusade, hanging around the neck of Sir Gamble Wiltthorne, Crusader of the Order of St. Sebald. Wiltthorne never returned.|The Hand would be worth 3000-4500 Pieces of Silver in most markets, but might fetch more from the Clergy of St. Sebald (for its role in the Fourth Crusade) or from the High Clergy of Saint Ulric, who is now the Custodian of St. Serra.}}
