JudithExcerpted from An Account of The Lives of the Imperial Saints, by Dr. Archibald Beaumont. First Edition Published, 1698.

~

left|450px|thumb|A two panelled engraving depicting Judith from a parish church in Norweald CountyA major saint, Judith was the wife of Sebald, and, it is said, gained her status simply as a result of her relationship to him. Whatever modern theology ascribes for the reason behind her ascension, her canon teaches that Judith was very competent, in life, with all aspects of agricultural endeavours. With her husband's establishment of the Valdenwail as a permanent settlement, it is strongly believed (or suggested) that Judith was instrumental in the early attempts at establishing permanent farms and ranches in the area surrounding the Valdenwail, and what is now the City of Avitus.

As such, Judith is primarily worshipped by farmers, ranchers, and those heavily involved in or dependent on agriculture. This nature also extends to patronage of the weather, resulting in her name being blessed or cursed depending on the meteorological conditions of the day. Where Mairin is viewed as a patron of agriculture in the sense that cultivation furthers life and growth, Judith is viewed as a patron of agriculture where cultivation represents the triumph of man over nature.

Saint Judith is also considered the patron of women in their role as women. That is, she does not represent women as victims (Muriel), mothers (Mairin), prostitutes (Ida) or in any form other than as women themselves.

Further, Saint Judith is also patron of all who breed animals.

Judith's following is strong, well-organised and highly independent. It is an almost exclusively rural following, with only token worship found within urban centres. Most of Judith's followers are found within societies and churches, not monasteries or knightly orders (indeed, there are no knightly orders to Saint Judith, though, horses bred by the clerics of Judith have long been the mount of choice for all knights of the Empire.) A few monasteries and convents to Judith do exist, however, these usually take the form of organised farms or ranches rather than cloistered abbeys. The bulk of the canon's organisation is found in its clerical societies and parish churches.

As a brief aside, the one notable institution belonging to the worship of Saint Judith within the city of Avitus is the Society of Erasmus, the leading kennel and animal husbandry club in the Empire. Erasmus, it is said, was a favourite horse of a long-ago Scion, which was bred specifically for him as a coronation gift by the clerics of Saint Judith. Erasmus was considered to be the pinnacle of the breed, and indeed, it is said that no horse has ever quite matched Erasmus in quality and breeding. The Society of Erasmus, housed in a small building near Lord's University in Avitus, and staffed by a few of the faithful of Saint Judith, is charged with maintaining a detailed record of the accepted and acknowledged breeds of domesticated animals within the empire, as well as a record of bloodlines and lineages of various champion specimens from the different animal varieties. It is said that foolish is he who does not pay the nuns of Erasmus a visit before placing a bet on a particular racehorse.
