This region includes the City of Lysander and an area surrounding the city of roughly 400 miles in radius.  The City is found at an ancient nexus: it is close to the Sea of Sorrow, an inland sea with access to the West; it is situated on the northern shore of the Sanguine Sea, and it sits on the ancient trade road that once connected the Empire with the West, now called the Bellum Via.  This City has been the source of most of the global exchanges that have happened in the last 1000 years, limited though they might be in the present era. It is an ancient city, with some very strange architecture that hearkens back to times of great population movements; the Colonization and the Crusades. Buildings of tremendous size and strange shapes and odd materials are found all throughout this ancient City.

This City has been ruled by the Council of War for over 1500 years.  The Council is made up, currently, of the Prelate of St. Dunstan, The Prelate of St. Ulric, the Arch Bishop of St. Severinius’ Lysander, The Arch Bishop of St. Sebalds’ Lysander, and the Bishop of St.  Abaddons’ Lysander.  This City is ruled by the Council, but the Council is, in large part, answerable to the Scion of St. Avitus.  As such, politics in this City is a slow and complicated matter that never makes any sense to the locals.  Locals here do not have the sense of rights and freedoms as they do in Waldheim. The folk of Lysander are subjects, not citizens, and punishments are harsh and swift.  That being said, this is a very peaceful City, with a very ecclesiastically heavy demographic.  About 1 in 7 people in this City is a member of the clergy, or a fighting order of one of the many Canons that fill this City.

The Black Mountains are hard by the City, and serve as a constant reminder that Lysander is one of the 4 Points of the Old Empire, with the Grevisgloom lying just beyond the mountain wall.

*Population: About 95,000 in the City, about 400,000 more in the country side.
*Government: Ecclesiastic council of 5 officials from the ‘Crusading’ Canons.
