Excerpted from Dr. Eustace Worthorpe's History Primer for Students of the Humanities, Lord’s University., 1738 edition.

== The Men of Bram'Cairn (1400 BC) ==

There has been little to no debate over the fact that in 1400 BC, the vessel Bram'Cairn arrived in Avilund, carrying Dunstan, Sebald and Barnabas. The location of its landing is somewhat disputed, though the answer to that question is undeniably hidden in the Valdenwail. To be sure, the ship landed close to the present day location of the Valdenwail, and most certainly within the confines of the Imperial Ecclesiarchy of Valdenwail (IEV). This land was then described as fertile and verdant beyond imagining for the Men of the Islands, though this description does not hold today. By all accounts, the IEV is one of the bleakest places in the quondam Empire today. In those days it was ideally suited for colonization, and it is Judith, Sebald's wife, who is credited with the agricultural taming of those lands. 

After the arrival of Bram'Cairn, Dunstan and Sebald stay in Avilund, and Barnabas returns home as Captain of the ship. This marks the beginning of the Saeculum Humanitas a Avilund. It is important to note that Barnabas holds the unique theological position of being a native of the Archipelago, but not a member of the Prime Pantheon. This may well be because of an obstinate tendency towards numerology and the number eleven, and therefore a lack of space for him (and Ruth) in the Prime Pantheon. However, some have argued that the origins of Barnabas are uncertain, as they are not detailed in the Tale; he is given but a passing reference as the captain of the ship, and nothing more.

== Forging of the Vandenwail (1250 BC) ==

Prior to the catastrophic Repurgo, there was ample documentation that in 1398 BC, Ulric and a large host of Men from the Islands came and settled Avilund. From this time, migration by ship from the Islands to Avilund persists, for perhaps a century or so. This marks the beginning of the Saeculum Maximus Congrecius. Some time after this, Judith, an immigrant from the Islands arrives and marries Sebald. Theirs is the first recorded marriage in Avilund, and their ceremony is very closely followed by the Saintly of both of those Canons today.
 
The first stones of the Valdenwail are laid in 1250 BC, in order to contain the Rule of St. Avitus, which was penned by Sebald. This is the year that is commonly accepted as the formal birth of the Primus Deus Fidelis, as the first PDF document is revealed. Though Sebald is known to have died shortly after this document is revealed, Men experience an unchecked expansion on the continent at this point, for hundreds of years. Agricultural Historians and Natural Scientists suggest that this is largely due to the mastery of farming techniques that Judith had begun, and successful animal husbandry techniques. Certainly, dozens of towns and some small cities spring up from this date forward, and this expansion does not stop for 800 years. 
 
It is important to note that the Tale makes no mention of either the Valdenwail, or the Rule of St. Avitus, though it does mark the arrival of Ulric, nearly towards its end. Thus, we can narrow the date of publication of the Tale between 1398 BC and 1250 BC. There are scholars who have devoted their entire careers and lives to narrowing this large margin, somewhat, but all in vain. Too little evidence survived the Repurgo, and mores the pity.

In 1206 BC, Ulric was slain in the maw of Razzlethorn. This beast is described in many tales that have survived the centuries. However, it has been described as everything from a great Dragon, to a huge Spider, and many other things besides. The death of Ulric is significant; he is the last of the Prime Pantheon, and probably the last Archipelago native to draw breath in Avilund. His death is also a sign to the heathen Ferals, who have been held at bay by Ulric and his Knights for decades. With his death, Vestus the Pestilent raises a great hoard which marches through the last Elder State, and right up to the walls of Waldheim, beginning a 7-year siege.

== Establishment of the Collegium Waldheim (1199 BC) ==

350px|thumb|Ignatius, Anselm and Gratus being tutored in the wisdom of the Elders

This is one of the most studied years in Middle History. In this year, the Elder Society is drawing its final breath; the Siege of Vestus seems imminently complete, as the Elder resistance is all but worn down. Ignatius, Anselm and Gratus manage to sneak into the City, and they meet with the Elders for the last time. It is known that Sebald had met the Elders, and that he respected them, and especially, their architecture, which he tried to emulate. However, there are no surviving records detailing any meeting between Sebald or any other Men, and the Elders, and thus the visitation of 1199 BC is significant. These three men, who form an organization known as the Collegium Waldheim, spend several weeks with the last Elders, learning all they can from them. There are entire books and courses of study devoted to this historic last meeting of the Young Race and the Elder, and again, it is not within the scope of this volume to explore this encounter. At the end of the visit, Vestus breaks through the gates, and the time of the Elders is concluded. The Collegium Waldheim manages to escape, fortunately. 
 
It is vital to the understanding of our Culture, that the student of Humanities understands that a seed was planted in the hearts and minds of Men in 1199 BC. The Collegium extolled the virtues and achievements of the Elders, and to this day, Men still perceive themselves as a race that is not only younger than the Elders, but markedly inferior. Much of this complex comes from the deification (later outlawed) of the Elders by Ignatius, Anselm and Gratus, and though it may have left the Men of Avilund feeling somewhat second grade, it compelled an even greater effort of expansion and colonization, and the discovery of all things Elder.
 
The Collegium is also significant, because it is the first Institute of Learning for Men. Before this time, we had but a crude alphabet and nearly complete illiteracy. After 1199, however, there was a new focus on education and research. Of course, Ignatius, the Saint of Knowledge, Academia and Cartographers, was the father of a variety of disciplines. Gratus, the Saint of Medicine, learned his first Humours from the Elders, and of course, went on to develop medicine in relative leaps and bounds. Anselm is the Saint and Father of New Magic for Men in Avilund, and it was with the Elders in his short visitation that he learned his first cantrip. These men began to study and teach these things to others, though not in the classroom setting that one would imagine today. The study of their academic lives will bring the student of Humanities to appreciate the Modern Age and all of its amenities and comforts in Academia.
 
Finally, with regards to the Collegium Waldheim, it should be noted that they did indeed have a building, the first school of Men, in fact, in the Valdenwail. We call it the College today, for lack of knowing its true name, if one does indeed exist. For over 2 millennia, this building (of which no description survived the Repurgo) was the destination of pilgrimage for the saintly of the three founding Saints and a host of others besides. However, no visitor from outside the superannuated and hermetic walls of the Valdenwail has set foot in the College since 1210.

== Declaration of Empire (1099 BC) == 

left|300px|thumb|Last Stand aboard the Cariegh Raeigh, artist unknown
In the hundred years since the fall of Waldheim to the Ferals, Men had made tremendous progress on the continent. There are several large towns and two cities (Tiberwail and Duneedin). Men have pushed back their boundaries significantly, perhaps as far as 200 miles from their stronghold in the Valdenwail. In this year, Clavo Avitus Vanderwail (1184-1033 BC), though already known by the title of Scion, declares himself the Emperor of Avilund, and the unification of State and Faith is made fast. Until this time, the leadership of Men had alternated between the two Estates, and the towns and villages had their own autonomy and chose governments of their own styling. Indeed, some villages were ruled by heathen councils, still hanging on to the Old Faith of the Archipelago (that which predates the Saintly Faith).

Things were ripe on the continent for this political change. For starters, the ships from the Archipelago had stopped coming to these shores. It is suspected that great wars were ravaging the Archipelago, likely with the Kells deeply involved, or perhaps organized Island Ferals. This is all speculation. What isn’t speculation is that the last ship to arrive in the Grey Harbour was the Cariegh Raeigh. This ship crashed into the port by either tremendous chance, or Saintly Guidance, for not a living soul walked aboard that vessel, which has become the topic of many an Epic, Romance, and lesser works of fiction since her portentous arrival on these shores. The Continental Ferals were also in a stage of organization which threatened many of the towns and villages. Many requests for help from the Valdenwail were answered, but only after fealty had been sworn to the Scion.
 
Though the Scion chose the title of Emperor, he was actually a hereditary king, and his ‘Empire’ a kingdom, with all the complexities of fealty and vassalage that one can find in the Kingdoms on the continent today. However, by whatever name, the Empire was born, and the Men of Avilund had forged something new and unique to themselves, apart from their island ancestry. And though political semantics can cause interminable debate about the qualities of the ‘Empire’, doubtless the system worked. By the time Clavo died in 1033, there were settlements in the northern regions today known as Wellenlund and Isenwald, which are hundreds of miles from the Valdenwail. Siege had been laid to Gulfziam (the Feral name for Waldheim) a number of times, but it was never taken in this time.

== Siege of the Valdenwail and Destruction of Duneedin (450 BC) ==
 
After 650 years of Imperial expansion, the borders of the Empire reached boundaries which they have not crossed even today. Dozens of cities and large towns could be found all over Avilund, and many Elder settlements had been discovered, explored, and resettled. The system of Canon Law had been well established by this time, and the rule of the Vanderwails was absolute, and mostly benign. However, a great threat came in the form of a new hoard of Ferals, under the intelligent leadership of Brogard the Cruel. Brogard razed dozens of towns and entire provinces of the Empire, including the great city of Tiberwail, which was rebuilt centuries later as Lysander.

By October, Brogard had marched upon the Valdenwail, and indeed laid siege to those inviolable walls. Brogard’s was the only army to ever sight the walls of the Imperial City itself. Lazarus of Duneedin, then a General of the Imperial Host, put an end to Brogard’s rampage. The Epic of Lazarus of Duneedin, of which many copies still exist today, tells this tale best. In short, Lazarus first met Brogard in the streets of his native city as it was razed to the ground, and was terribly wounded in the exchange. Though Duneedin was destroyed, Lazarus managed to escape with a couple thousand soldiers and refugees, and retreated to the Valdenwail. There, he rallied his forces and the garrison left at the castle, and managed to hold off the siege of Brogard from October until December. That winter was brutally cold, and Lazarus is credited with the foresight to hold off his counter-attack until weeks of bitter cold had taken the edge of his opponents. Outnumbered by over ten to one, Lazarus and his men marched out in the middle of a terrible storm to attack their foes, and Lazarus himself took the head from Brogard, which was the mortal wound of not only Brogard, but of his hoard and rampage. The hoard broke and consumed itself soon afterwards, but in its fragmenting, it continued to cause harm to the every corner of the empire. Indeed, in 435 BC, a group of Ferals who had been raiding a road in the IEV were killed by a group of knights, and they were found to be wearing threadbare tabards from Brogard’s personal guard.
 
Though Brogard's rampage was ended, the Empire, as it had been for over 600 years, had been crippled. The unchecked expansion of Men in Avilund came to an end, and for hundreds of years, there was little communication between the various states of the Empire. Indeed, small feudal kingdoms sprung up again in places that had previously accepted the Imperial Rule. This step backward was born of necessity, as there were no Imperial troops to protect many of these places. The separation of many of these states from not only the Imperial Rule, but of the Canonical Rule was bitter and lasting; Mantlethorn and Hiergallad never fully recovered from the hardships of the years to follow, and during the Second Age of Imperial Expansion, these two regions never fully accepted the Primogeniture of the Scion, and during the Repurgo, these Kingdoms were instrumental in bringing about the end of the Rule of the Scion.

*Forward to Late Middle History
*Back to Early Middle History
