Excerpted from Dr. Eustace Worthorpe's History Primer for Students of the Humanities, Lord’s University., 1738 edition.

== The First Inquisition ==

On November 23, 750, as the blood was still being washed from the Cathedral in Waldheim, Nicetus delivered his terrible and heavy-handed decree from the Emperor's Balcony in the Blue Palace. The face of Nicetus as it withdrew from that balcony after his oration was the last face of any Scion to be seen in public again. They have lived in seclusion ever since the massacre at the cathedral, and none have delivered a public oration since that time. The Prospectus Imperialis ex Daemonica was designed to counter the Black Faith, which was seemingly growing in influence and power. That the servants of Maccul could infiltrate the higher ranks of some of the more powerful Canons was worrisome, and thus harsh measures were called for. Inquisitors began to stalk the lands and the cities, and their power was absolute. The birth of the Prospectus marks the beginning of the long estrangement of the Canons of the Collegium from the main Saintly Faith. It was their Canons that suffered the most from the Inquisition, for it targeted men of learning and magic specifically.

With the Inquisition set loose upon the Empire, the faiths of the Collegium were greatly reduced in power. Their clergy men were afraid to practice their learned professions, and society as a whole suffered. Records from this period were few even before the Repurgo, and are all but extinct today. Despite the efforts of the Inquisition, the Black Faith grew, and their crimes became more ubiquitous and heinous. With every crime or perceived crime of the Black Faith, another Inquisitor was given his letter of marque, and set loose upon the Empire. So it was that the Empire came to have two enemies gnawing at its insides, and so it was that it began to shrink. The Imperial Army was conscripted by the Inquisitors to do their bidding, and was thus unable to do their duties at the borders effectively. The infrastructure was seriously damaged by the in Inquisition as well, as too many farmers and other providers were put to the torch, the water or the noose to generate the surpluses needed to feed the Empire.

=== Saeculum Noctis Obscuris ===
right|300px|thumb|One of fifteen contemporary charcoal-on-hide drawings by peasants of Isenwald depicting the hunt for the Black Faith ([[Lord's Library Collection)]]

The Scion was ever suspicious of the faiths of the Collegium, and as the Inquisition grew in power, many people turned to those faiths for sanctuary. This actually caused a brief period of expansion for these three faiths, and new abbeys were founded in regions that were previously closed to them. The Inquisition was quick to show up in these areas and make life difficult for the clergy and the lay people of these villages. The only limitation the Inquisition had to deal with in those days was the Law of Sanctuary, which prevented them from entering any holy place without permission by the senior clergy there. However, in 889, Scion Tancred Avitus Vanderwail (804-1009) penned the Prospectus ex Veneficium, which not only put an end to that sole limitation of the Inquisition, but it also made the study and practice of any magic other than the Divine, a crime punishable by death. As one could well imagine, this was not well received by the Canon of St. Anselm, and the other Canons of the Collegium backed their ally. All their defiance of the Prospectus earned them were visitations by irate and vengeful Inquisitors. With the implementation of the new Prospectus, learned men mark the beginning of the Saeculum Noctis Obscuris, in which the spread of learning, magic and medicine was completely halted, and practitioners of these professions were forced into hiding. Indeed, many faithful clergy of the faiths of the Collegium were put to death by the ubiquitous Inquisitors, and the divide between these formerly powerful Canons and the Scion and his allies was made broader and deeper.

There is little good that can be said about this age. Imperial citizens were burned, hanged and drowned by the hundreds, and the though the death toll can never be accurately figured (outside the walls of the Valdenwail or Dimmantle), it is likely that over one million citizens lost their lives. There would certainly have been many practitioners of the Black Faith amongst them, but certainly not one in one-hundred.

By 1019, the Empire was in jeopardy of collapsing completely. There were no longer enough farmers left to feed the big cities, and famine and disease became rampant in these places. The city of Avitus (Waldheim) endured a long plague that killed 2 people in 5, and in Lysander, there was enough famine to cause riots in what is normally the most well-governed and disciplined people of the Empire.

=== Starvation in the North ===

In the North, things happened that caused all of this to change. The Kingdom of Heirgallad had suffered the Inquisition so badly that it had not a single farmer left to feed what was left of the Kingdom. The entire Kingdom was but a single winter from starvation and extinction. At this time, a great host of Kells marched upon Castle Heirgallad, and when King Armund of Heirgallad rode out to meet the King of the Kells to find his terms, it is said that the Kell stroked the emaciated flank of the horse, shook his rival’s weak hand, and wept. He turned his army about immediately, and left his dying enemy alone for the rest of that century.

News of this encounter reached Mantlethorn. Though the two northern Kingdoms had been on-again off-again allies and enemies, King Aeginthorn showed his quality by declaring a lasting peace with his neighbour, and provided what little assistance his people could to see them through the winter. Aeginthorn and Armund gathered what nobles and men-at-arms they had remaining, and they rode to Avitus, where they delivered a Declaration of Succession at the Blue Palace. They were quickly arrested in the Palace, many of their nobles and men killed almost immediately by the overzealous Inquisitors who watched over the proceedings there. However, the Steward of the Blue Palace ordered the Inquisitors to stand down and to unhand the two kings and their men. They were kept as ‘guests’ in the palace for several months, while word of this was brought to the Scion in the Valdenwail. The Scion of the time,  Maiolus Avitus Vanderwail (Maiolus the Forgiving, 1009-1210), heard the story of the Kings, and it is rumoured that he too wept at the story of the Kells, and how the men of the north would rather come to their certain death in the Blue Palace, than live under the Crimson Banner of the Empire. He immediately ordered all Inquisitors out of the Northern Provinces, and sent aid there to make amends. This was the first stroke against the First Inquisition.

=== Massacre at Hamstonfast ===

The second and fatal stroke would fall in Hamstonfast in the Bishopric of St. Ignatius in October of 1021. The infamous Inquisitor Kerrigan came to this village and put all 900 of its citizens to death during his investigation there, including his own retinue. When word of this reached Maiolus, he immediately put an end to Inquisitorial Authority, and had many Inquisitors themselves tried in the Valdenwail, where their fates became unknown and lost to those lonely halls. Though the Inquisition was formally ended in December of 1021, it was several years before all of the Inquisitors in the field were rounded up and called home, and their barbarous atrocities endured, though in a much-reduced fashion.

=== Aftermath of the Inquisition ===

What followed was not a rebirth of Learning, Magic and Medicine. The citizens of the Empire were forever scarred by the Inquisition, and still feared to do anything they would have done during the bloody years of the Prosepecti. Unfortunately, the Empire still stayed curled up inside itself, afraid to once again stand and stretch, so effective were the Inquisitors of the Scion in their dreadful duty.

Almost 200 years past between the end of the Inquisition and the Repurgo Imperialis. Little happened in those between years; the Empire was stagnant, and there were some small internecine conflicts over scarce resources, though nothing on a scale worth mentioning in this short historic survey. All students of History are strongly encouraged to read, copy and study Dr. Carrington’s Cruentus Novae res Sanquinius Satus Compleo which gives a much more detailed and in-depth account of the closing days of the Repurgo and the Second Inquisition, and the most detailed accounting of the Novae res Sanguinius ever compiled. Below, these events will be given a cursory illustration.

== The Repurgo Imperialis ==

In 1210, the Casparian Monk David of Sandalstone arrives on the set of History. He had taken the Rule of St. Caspar into a perverted context which suggested that all learning and records were heresy and an affront to St. Avitus and the Saintly Faith. His misinterpretation of the Rule could not have been planted in more fertile soil. Though the rivers of blood and mountains of corpses left behind by the First Inquisition had vanished over the previous 200 years, their memory was fresh, and the terror they left behind just as sharp and clear as it was when Kerrigan walked in Avilund. Adding to this was the fact that society had not been much improved by the end of the Inquisition, which was largely blamed on the Black Faith, and those who supported it. The list of Black Faith supporters was of varying length, depending on what region one takes into account, and the level of education of the interpreter. However, it was not difficult to convince the simple folk of those unenlightened days that the Clerk or the Money Lender to which they were heavily indebted had much to do with the Black Faith. David had a natural talent for identifying enmity in a new village, and was quick to orate to the poor masses and turn them against the objects of their enmity. By 1212, the Casparians were in every province of the Empire, setting entire libraries and schools to the torch, and stringing up those learned men which they perceived to be members of the Black Faith. Just about everyone who could read was a target of the Casparians, and in this time, having followed a long and bloody period of purgation of the educated elite, the illiterate were legion, an angry and armed legion. The Repurgo seemed especially focused on destroying such things as maps and instruments and records of navigation. So it was that the Canon of St. Caspar and St. Ignatius came to an irreconcilable conflict which persists to this day. This conflict is the first open non-secular internecine conflict of the Saintly Faith, and it was this conflict that drew the attention of the Scion.

== The Second Inquisition ==

The fires of St. Caspar outlived David by a century, but the drive and hatred he held was found in countless Casparians in the decades following his death in 1248. By 1295, the Prelate of St. Caspar, Eugene of St. Caspar, declared an open war on the Canon of St. Ignatius. This declaration was illegal as per the Rule of St. Sever, and so the Scion, Baudri Avitus Vanderwail (1210-1350) became involved. He publicly denounced the declaration of war, stating that Eugene did not have the Saintly Authority to order it, but he took no further actions himself. Rather, he reinstituted the Inquisition, and again, the lights in the unsleeping towers of Dimmantle light up, and riders issued forth. It is certain that the Emperor was suspicious of the actions and motivations of the Casparians, and it is also certain that elements of the Black Faith had been heavily involved with this Canon from the start of the Repurgo in 1210. It is often rumoured that David himself was likely possessed, but this can in no way now be verified.

It is important to understand that a change in the power structure of the Empire had taken hold in the years since the end of the First Inquisition. The Saintly Faith had lost some currency as a protector of the people, and the societal ideal we know today as the Feudal Kingdom was entrenched. In the Northern provinces especially, people began to pledge themselves to a landed and powerful warlord, who, for a share of the crops they harvested from his lands, he swore to protect. These warlords became knights, barons and princes, and all swore allegiance officially to the Emperor, but in practice served their liege, or local king. In the large towns and cities, opportunistic men who saw profit in the regulation of the limited resources of the times became known as burghers. The nobility and the merchants gained a level of power they had not held previous to the First Inquisition, and they were about to take one step back and two forward.

=== Baudri's Legacy ===

left|350px|thumb|Inquisitor and Prisoner, from Tragic History of the Second Inquisition circulated by the Ignatian Brotherhood of Waldheim

There is no doubt that Baudri was the most bloodthirsty Scion to ever rule in the Valdenwail. It was rumoured that he personally stalked the lands as the “Inquisitor Beodreath”, and tales of this man still scare children and adults alike to this day. Whether this historic figure, inflated as he likely is, was actually Baudri or not is a matter for academic debate in ale houses, and not the classroom. What is uncontested is that Baudri backed the bloodier of the two Inquisitions, the Second. His Inquisitors were even more ruthless than those of Nicetus and Tancred. How such policies and practices could come from the son of Maiolus is another matter for less structured academic debate, but is puzzling all the same. Beodreath was known to erect forests of corpses on pikes, and though the First Inquisition was ended when a single village was obliterated, Inquisitors of the Second left dozens of such scars on the Empire.

One must not forget that the Casparians were doing the same to the empire at the same time, though to a lesser degree. There were many Casparians put to the pike by Inquisitors of this age, but there are many records surviving that terrible time of Inquisitors conscripting the already-seasoned butcherous mobs of the Casparians into their retinues. It was a terrifying time for anyone in Avilund in that age; the people were struggling not only with the triple internal threat of Casparians, Inquisitors and Black Faith (though the smarter Black Faithful no doubt kept a low profile in this age), but the Kells again returned to harass the Northern Provinces, and a number of Feral warlords had grown powerful enough to march into the Bishoprics of St. Sebald (Lysander) and St. Ignatius. Therefore, the True Faithful of the Learned Saint, and the much-needed Crusading Orders had more trouble than they could handle, and could not provide a military check to the slaughter of the time.

Though body counts are always a dodgy matter in any conflict, this one is even more difficult to put a number to. There were just too few records left, and too few people willing to account for what they had seen, lest they become the next corpse on a pike. However, many scholars have since devoted their entire academic careers to assessing the damage of this ungovernable era, and there is a general agreement in the Community that it was doubtless not less than 3 million killed, possibly double that. The number would represent about 1 citizen in 8, or possibly 1 in 4, finding their death at the hands of the Casparians and the Inquisitors. A terrible number, to be sure.

== The Bloody Revolution ==

The end of the Second Inquisition was not to come from the North this time. The Northerners had more than enough trouble than they could handle with the Kells, and indeed offered but token nobles to the Revolution that was about to happen. It was in the City of St. Avitus (Waldheim) in 1346 that change took hold. A council of nobles calling themselves the Order of Bellwether formed, in response to the fires and corpses choking the streets of their Province and City. Through much plotting and the complete elimination of Saintly leadership in their Order, they managed to put together a small army of some 3000 men, who, on Oct 1, 1346, rounded up the senior clergy of every major and minor Canon in the City, and had them gently imprisoned in the Blue Palace. The Order appeared on the Emperors Balcony, 5 hooded men who clearly wore the gowns and trappings of nobility, and declared the City independent of the Rule of the PDF and the Scion. They declared that the Clergy would no longer have any political authority in the City, and that until the bloodshed of the Inquisition ceased, all senior clergy would remain imprisoned. They also changed the name of the City to Waldheim, which it remains today.

=== Reactions to the Republic ===

The elicited the response one would expect from the Scion; Baudri was a hothead and a bloodthirsty maniac, and sent word to every Inquisitor stalking the Empire that they were to attack the City at once, and put the Order of Bellwether to the pike or the fire as soon as possible. The Inquisitors of the Second Inquisition were man terrible and able things; they were able to turn sons against mothers, and invoke fear in the hearts of all who saw them, but they were no military force. From November that year, until the Spring of 1347, the Inquisitors arrived piecemeal to confront the Order, and all were met with an organized and growing Republican Army, which was able to repel them, and capture and imprison many Inquisitors.

Baudri eventually called off his Inquisitors, and called a general retreat and regrouping; his Inquisitors and their retinues returned to the Valdenwail and to Dimmantle, where they awaited word from their Scion. The Order and the Republican Army played a very strategic card at that point; the army had grown to over 10,000 men, many of which were now seasoned and confident. They sent two regiments to assist the Bishopric of St. Ignatius in their struggle against the MacGawnowich Ferals in June of 1347, and by the end of August, the Bishopric was liberated from their struggle. This move helped to ingratiate the newly-founded Order and the Republican Army with the staunch supporters of the PDF, and resulted in more support and more troops.

In the south, the Dungorgon Feral Horde which had been pressing back the Crusading Order armies of Lysander retreated, no doubt suspecting that the human armies would unite to bring the Ferals between them for a crushing victory. If their generals knew of the animosity between the Crusading Orders, which still mostly supported the Scion, and the Republican Army, they would likely have stayed, and the world would be a different place. However, they did not.

Unfortunately, the strict dogma by which the Crusading Orders lived their lives was more than enough to blind them to the madness of Baudri, and as the Dungorgons retreated, they regrouped and planned to march upon St. Ignatius and Waldheim. Emissaries from both the Order and the Ignatians were sent to make peace with Lysander and her Knights, but this could not be achieved, and so a long year of internecine fighting took hold. It must have been a pitiful thing, to see the Republican Army and the Crusading Orders fighting over villages which had become nothing more than empty graveyards after the passing of the Inquisitors and Casparians who had brought about this struggle. All was not mindless conflict though; the Pilgrims of Vander refused to take the field against any army which bore the standards of any Saintly Canon, and it was not long before every Republican Army found itself aided by a spiritual advisor, usually an Ignatian. However, the Ordo Croceus Cervis followed the orders of the Scion without a thought, and many unfortunate battles across the Imperial South and the in the Imperial Septum could not be avoided.

The Crusaders were able to muster strength as they marched across the South, towards the Valdenwail, just as the Republic was able to do so as it marched through the Nith Valley, until it crossed the Antiquitus Via. At this point, the Republican forces were split into four; the Northern Army, which marched to assist the Northern Provinces with their struggles against the Kells, the Ignatian Relief Army, which had helped in the war against the MacGawnowiches, and now fought against the OCC in the Bishopric of St. Ignatius, the Waldheim Army, which held the City against any threat, and the Expeditionary Army, which marched over the Septum and into the Imperial South with the aim of setting siege to the Valdenwail.

=== The Battle of Olive Plain ===

It is the actions of the Expeditionary Army which historians of the Novae Res Sanguinius are chiefly concerned with. On August 17, 1347, this division of 7000 men and 1000 heavy horse crossed the Septum with little resistance, but found a large garrison in St. Mairin’s Gate at the base of the mountains. The pass down to the Gate gave the Republican Army the benefit of high ground, but they had no siege engines, nor did they wish to use such indiscriminate weapons for their cause. Further, though it was lower down in the mountains, the Gate was and is situated on a great bluff which commands the plain beneath it, and it has only a small and vulnerable mountain road leading to it which would cost the Republic dearly to use. General Woefall Ulmar, the leader of the Expeditionary Army decided to make a forced march past the Gate, enduring the artillery which the Crusaders no doubt had entrenched in the Gate. It cost them dearly to pass; over 2000 men and 400 horse were killed in the mad rush down the pass and onto the plain. The artillery continued to harass the Expeditionary Army until it was out of range. At that point, General-Brother Moldan Grist rode out with his Crusader-Brothers and the men-at-arms they had conscripted along the way. They numbered some 4000, 700 of whom were Crusaders, and fighters of the finest sort.

On the olive plains below St. Mairin’s Gate, the two armies positioned themselves, across a small valley. A tent was erected, and the Generals and their staffs met to discuss terms and Rules of Combat. However, Ulmar had a dirty trick up his sleeve. During the negotiations, alarms sounded up in the Gate as a portion of the Waldheim Army which had marched in secret a day behind the main Expeditionary Army charged down the slopes and overran the Gate. This small detachment of about 1500 men now commanded the Gate and its artillery, which the main force of Grist’s army was now at the mercy of. The discussion between the two Generals in the tent is a thing of well-recorded legend. There are poetic and lengthy accounts of it in several documents, but the summary of it was this; that Ulmar smiled as he saw the furrowed brow of his opponent harden at the realization of what was happening up in the Gate. Grist had guessed what had happened without having to get word from outside the tent, and though he grew angry, he smiled. Ulmar is known to have said the following;

12
I am loathe to turn your instruments of war against you or any other Goode Man of Avilund. I have sacrificed many pawns to get you onto this Honourable Field, and now you see the Queen ahead of you, prostrate and vulnerable, for I know that my new Army could not master the discipline that the Pilgrims of Vander possess. You may strike at the queen, but you will leave the King vulnerable; you will be destroyed by your own artillery. Please good and Honourable Knight, please acquiesce!


Grist is known to have said the following.

12
You misguess your role, General. We are all but pawns.

As he departed the tent, Ulmar is known to have blanched.

The Battle of Olive Plain commenced less than an hour after the tent was struck. It is sometimes called the Battle of Tears, for both sides could see the faces of their adversaries across the valley, and knew them for countrymen and kin, and many wept that they should cross blades. However, the discipline of General Grist was absolute, and though the trebuchet and cannon were poised on the bluff above to cripple his army with a single wave of a black flag in the ranks of his opponents on the other side of the valley, he knew his duty, and he charged. The report from the cannons above was terrible; it was the first time Men of Avilund fired the new and terrible weapons at each other, and it was terrifying for both sides. The conscripted men-at-arms of the Crusader force broke quickly under the terror of those guns, but the Pilgrims of Vander themselves charged out, and though they were but a tithe the strength of the Expeditionary Army, they killed and routed over half of it, and General Ulmar himself was cut down in the battle. In the end, the Pilgrims all lay dead, having fought to a man upon a heap of their Brothers.

After this battle, the Expeditionary Army halted at the Gate, and held the pass all the rest of that year, awaiting reinforcements. With the Pilgrims of Vander all but destroyed, and the Ordo Croceus Cervus locked in siege with the Ignatian army in that Bishopric, the Imperial South lay open to the Republican Army. However, it did not advance until the following spring when a portion of the Northern army returned from their wars in the north with the Kells. They were reduced in number to about 3500, but that was enough to bring the spirits of the wintered Expeditionary Army to a fighting level. This force now numbered over 8000, many of them veterans. However, word soon reached them from the Ignatians that the OCC had lifted siege, and was making its way as quickly as possible to the defence of the Valdenwail. The OCC would have to cross the Septum and travel over 600 miles to make the Valdenwail. The Expeditionary Army was but 350 miles from the Valdenwail, and thus things looked good for the Republic.

=== The Battle of Hedgefield ===

However, the Expeditionary Army would not get to the Valdenwail before some troops arrived to reinforce it. Though different historical accounts must be examined to piece together what happened next, it is now a thing of legend-cum-fact that 300 of the most senior Brothers of the Golden Stag departed in great haste from the main of the OCC force. They were never seen by their brethren again. In July, when the van of the EA approached the Hedge, they were met with 300 heavy horse who all wore ancient armour from the early days of the Saeculum Maximus Congrecius. With them was a small retinue of emissaries from the Valdenwail. The van never made the approach across the valley before the Hedge. They lost their nerve, each and every man, and turned back.

A week later, when the main force approached the valley before the Hedge, they found the same 300 mounted men in their ancient armour and the retinue awaiting talks. There was one masked member of the Order of Bellwether leading the Army, and he had several experienced Captains and two Generals with him, but none of them could find the courage to cross the valley under the terrible glare of those 300 sentinels. The Scion’s retinue rode out ahead of their ominous guard, and awaited a council from the newly founded Republic, but after a few hours, when it did not cross the valley, there was heard a great cackling in the valley, and the retinue and 2/3 of the sentinels departed, heading back into the Hedge.

At this point there was much desertion. The Captains ordered a siege be set, but more than half of their men left that very night, and in the morning, not a single siege machine had been erected. Parties were sent to round up deserters, and messages sent to Waldheim requesting more help and advice. The awkward cycles of desertion and round-up, attrition and re-supply continued for two more months, until the cool Autumn fell upon the haphazard siege. Unfortunately, at this point the main force of the OCC arrived on the right flank of the siege, and another great battle was to be fought. Brother-General Maxamillian Grudge, the leader of the OCC wasted not a moment in deliberations. As he arrived on the field on September 28, 1348, his men positioned for battle immediately. The EA tried to make the preparations required to meet them, but the will of that camp was still unsettled, and they made a terrible resistance for so large a force. Though they numbered about 10,000 at that point, the OCC was only 2500, counting some 240 Crusaders among them. This battle, The Battle of Hedgefield, was a terrible and chaotic affair that the Crusaders were well suited to. Every one of the Crusaders and the men-at-arms of the OCC fought to the death, at when the dust settled, there were only 1900 men of the EA left standing, with no Captains or Generals among them. The only leader left alive was the masked Bellwether, and he was ready to call a retreat. News had come that the Crusading Orders in Lysander were mounting a second wave, and though it would be markedly more anaemic than the two forces the EA had already faced, they knew that the men could not bear to meet with such enthusiastic opponents again. Add to this their unwillingness to march a single step towards the ominous hedge and its handful of awe-inspiring guardians, and it seemed that the ‘siege’ of the Valdenwail had come to an end. They made preparations to strike the camp. The next day brought better news, though; the Ignatian Army, which had been on the heels of the OCC, was nearing, and a great host was coming down from the City to reinforce. This was barely enough to keep the tattered remains of the EA in place, but it did.

=== Siege of the Valdenwail ===

By October, the two forces did arrive nearly simultaneously from the West and the North. The EA was surprised to see the Ignatian Army in such good shape; they had to cross 600 miles of the Imperial South, which had never loosened its allegiance to the Scion in any province, and it was still a populous region. However, the Ignatian host arrived unscathed with a full complement of 8000 troops, and the Waldheim Regiment with another 4000. As they arrived, the full complement of 300 sentinels again rode out to face them from across the valley, and again, it had the intended effect on most of the men. However, the Ignatians did not falter. While thousands of men around them lost their nerve and broke, the Ignatian Host remained as an island of resolute will. It was at this time that they unveiled the great Palanquin which bore the body of St. Ignatius inside a gilded glass box, suspended some 60’ in the air. The banners of the Ignatians were all waved in rally and defiance, and the grim sentinels on the opposite side of the valley shuffled a bit. The unveiling of the shrivelled and grisly Artifact rallied the rest of the Armies, and they stood as a single unified host of almost 14,000 across from the Hedge. Though they had been rallied, they would not charge against those 300 sentinels, though. So it was that siege was again set, and this time, the engines from St. Mairin’s Gate were brought to the line to threaten the Hedge.

=== The Placitum a Terminus Potentia ===

On October 30, 1348, the emissaries of the Scion again rode out from the Hedge, and this time, they rode to the nape of the valley under flags of truce to meet with the generals of the Republican Army. This time, emissaries from the RA did in fact ride down to meet them. They had many generals, three masked Bellwethers, and many bishops among them, including Prelate Scaerwyn of St. Ignatius. There are very few accounts of what transpired at this meeting; those from the Republic that were there never revealed nor recorded any of the proceedings. It is known that a tent was struck up, and after several hours, most of the Republic retinue was dismissed, except for one Bellwether and the Prelate of St. Ignatius. Several hours later, they again returned to the tent bearing a great chest, which some thought would be a bribe of some unfathomably valuable treasure. The tent was struck down shortly after that, and both retinues rode up the hill towards the Hedge, and past the parting Sentinels. Presumably, they met with the Scion himself somewhere inside the Hedge in some secret and forgotten building, and a day later they emerged. Prelate Scaerwyn addressed the Army on the morning of October 31 as the sun was rising. His speech is well documented in a number of accounts, and sounded much like this;

12Good and Saintly Men of Avilund, I present to you the Placitum a Terminus Potentia, signed by Emperor Baudri himself last night at the stroke of midnight. This document releases the people of Avilund from the Rule of the Emperor. The Empire is no longer! The Tyranny of the Inquisition and the evil of Men in Avilund have come to an end. Peace has replaced murder, prosperity has replaced famine. All Men are now Free to choose their Leaders and their Laws as they see fit. I know that we will all choose Goode and Saintly men to lead us, and we will be free of the Absolutism of an Emperor. The Scion is now Emperor of the small Ecclesiarchy on the other side of that Hedge alone. And though he and his descendants will always hold their sacred position as Scion and Spiritual Figurehead of our Saintly Faith, he and his will no longer rule our lives from within his obscure walls. Peace and Independence have come to Avilund! Return to your homes and govern yourselves in Goode and Saintly fashion! But never forget that Peace was won at a terrible price.

The Placitum itself and the long-term effects of the word-of-the-law printed upon it are matters for more in-depth studies of the Novae Res Sanguinius. However, Scaerwyn did in fact bear that document to the people on that morning, and the Empire did come to an end that very morning, and the Modern World was born. But, it was won at a terrible price, as the Prelate had mentioned. It was not long before it was discovered that the remains of the body of St. Ignatius had been removed from its glass tomb on the Palanquin, and that the terrible price that Scaerwyn was talking about was not only the cost of blood and the lasting pangs of the battles of Men against Men, but also the Holy Artifact of his Canon. The body of St Ignatius found its way, no doubt, to the Magnus Collego Sanctus that very day.

*Forward to Modern History
*Back to Early Late History
