The Cult of Saints, or Saintly Faith, is the only openly accepted faith in the lands of the Old Empire, including the Republic. The basis of this religion is the aid that the Saints offer in the intermediary part of the afterlife, when the souls of the dead must travel through the Valley of Shadow to find their way to their destination; Heaven or Hell. Proper veneration of a given saint, or saints, in one’s life is presumed to garner the aid of those saints in this perilous, post-death journey. Most souls are presumed to be trying to get to Heaven, which is a vaguely described paradise. However, some malignant souls are in search of Hell, and they too must ask for the help of their saints; the Black Saints, or Hellions. The peril of the journey is that demons, inhabitants of the Abyss, are constantly attacking the traveling soul, and attempting to drag the soul to the Abyss, where it will become another lost demon.

The first saint was Avitus. He was born on the Island, and spent his life in conflict with his brother, Gaul. The two brothers mutually destroyed each other in combat, and were the first two souls to make the journey through the Valley of Shadow; Avitus arriving in Heaven, and his brother in Hell. The story of the conflict between the brothers, and the descendants of Avitus is recorded in the ubiquitous copies of the Tale of the Woodland King. This book is something of a mix between a bible and an epic, and forms the basis for morality and social norms for the Men of Avilund.

The son (St. Severinius) and grandson (St. Sebald) of Avitus, and their contemporaries form what is known as the prime pantheon; a group of 11 saints (including Avitus) that are all men and women who were born in the Eastern Archipelago, and on the Island of Men. Though St. Avitus is nominally the head of the Saintly Faith, in reality, it is the Canon of St. Severinius that truly runs the church. In the Imperial South, the Canon of St. Avitus still has much power and authority, but beyond these lands, and in the Republic most of all, St. Avitus is not worshiped, and is regarded with some suspicion. This is because of the actions of the Scions.

The supreme head of the Saintly Faith is the Scion of Avitus; a direct descendant of Avitus himself. These men, who are only partly mortal (they seem to live uncommonly long lives, and are suspected to be bred with Earth-fallen angels), live within the ancient and empty halls of the Valdenwail, from where they rule the church, and formerly, an entire Empire. However, in the year 1348, the Novae res Sanguinius (The Bloody Revolution), shortened the reach of the Scion, the Emperor of Men. The Revolution started in the City of Waldheim (then called the City of Avitus), largely as a reaction to the Repurgo Imperialis.
