From Sir Geofrey Golfschalk's Encyclopaedae Reliquiae Arcanum, 1723 edition.

{{Artifact|New, Weapon|Created sometime between –28500 to –25500|Elder Artisan Dcuidules of Aredemis|This is best described as a thin-bladed longsword. It is light and fast. The blade is damasced, and is made up of layers of a deep violet-hued metal, and a deep red-hued metal. The handle is wrapped in the reddish leather of some creature that has not been identified to date, and is likely some extinct or very rare lizard. There is engraving on the blade in the Elder which says, as can best be interpreted, “I am Sorrow Wind, Bane of the Decadaaman, Deliverer of the Decaganets”.|The blade was certainly formed to be a weapon against something or someone called the Decadaaman, who are likely a band or species of Feral. It is known that the Elders were exterminated by the Ferals, though long after the forging of this blade. Though the blade must have an extensive history, being as old as it is, little is known about it. This blade was uncovered by the inquisitor Maxamillian Dread during the First Inquisition, in 1003. Dread used the blade as his own weapon until his own trial and hanging, in 1061. The blade was then confiscated by the Inquisition, and presumably locked deep within Dimmantle. However, a blade like it has been sighted numerous times in the centuries that followed. Of note, an Inquisitor named Vhaeragorh of Patrilund had in his possession a blade identical to this one during his career in the Second Inquisition. A painting of this Inquisitor hangs in the Imperial Palace in Waldheim, and the blade is seen resting on the lap of the sitting figure. The painting is dated 1347.|Sorrow Wind is known to be indestructible. It radiates strong magic to those who are sensitive to such things, but even those who are not acutely tuned into the arcane can sense a power within the thing. The blade is eternally razor-sharp, and is presumably very deadly to some (all) Ferals.|The current location of Sorrow Wind is unknown.|If Sorrow Wind were to come to a reputable Auction House, it would certainly fetch over 30,000 Pieces of Silver.}}
