==Introduction==
Eastwitch is a village in the northern limits of Zealouslund, at the edges of the Mantlethorn and the Great Boreal Wood. It is a place that few go to; the road ends at its door and beyond lies the Untamed Wilderness. The people there have been on their own for a very long time, and have developed their own small culture; the way they worship, the way they speak, the way they survive and thrive. Many think the inhabitants of Eastwitch to be a queer folk, too long up in the hills interbreeding and staving off beasts, ferals and other horrors, to be right in the head. But those who do chance a visit to Eastwitch are often impressed by the people. They are, for the most part, very civilized, in their own way. While they don’t generally trust outsiders, one doesn’t find walls around the village, or around the larger households. People are not greeted by dozens of armed riders when they approach a farm or household, and the few public places there are in the village are filled with friendly people who are polite, but prodding as to the nature of the visitors business.

It often impresses the visitor that there are no standing guards or militia. Indeed, there is but one Sheriff, and he spends most of his time making friendly house calls and sharing meals with the villagers. Certainly, Eastwitch is beset on all sides by great danger; the Mantlethorn is close to the North, the Great Boreal Wood, with all its strange and terrible inhabitants is on the East, and to the West and South are tribes of various humanoid monsters who wish no good will towards Eastwitch. To make matters worse, the closest city is Argent, which is surely a den of thieves and worse. In fact, the people of Eastwitch fear more from the City than they do from the wilderness.

But there is a good reason for all of this. The people of Eastwitch would not survive if not for the Wardens; rangers who scout the land using whatever means they have, to keep the worse elements of the Wilderness at bay. Tragedies in town, inflicted by the Wild, are very few as a result of the unfaltering labour of the Wardens. The people know this, and are grateful, but do not make a large production of it. This arrangement suits both the villagers and the Wardens. The visitor is often in wonder of how this place stays safe in this dangerous frontier. The visitor is in even more wonder when he finds out about the Wardens, and how their efforts are not generally glorified.

Eastwitch has a frontier town economy, and a very solid one at that. Farming, logging, mining, hunting and trapping make up the livelihoods of most men in Eastwitch. The greatest source of revenue for the village are the guided hunts that outsiders pay good money for. The Great Boreal Wood is teeming with wild life of all sorts, from the small and benign to the great and dangerous. From mid-summer to the first falls of snow, Eastwitch is crawling with men and women who have come very far to hunt in this Frontier land. These visitors provide Eastwitch with too much wealth to not be tolerated, but they are not missed when they leave. Of late, companies of adventurers have been frequenting Eastwitch, and then delving into the woods. Many don’t return, and most of the ones that do, escape only with the help of the Wardens.

==Geography==

The village of Eastwitch is located at the edge of the Great Boreal Wood, along the banks of the Wen River. The village is found half inside the old forest, and half on the outside, along the banks of the river, which have been cleared for farming. The Great Boreal Wood in this region is old, and the trees are large and tall. There is an abundance of tall pine and maple trees, especially deeper into the forest. Nearer the edge, and composing the tree-lines of several farms, are many oak, hickory and elm trees. Those with a keen eye for flora will also notice that there is a large number of black walnut trees in the area. These are by no means indigenous, but were introduced by the Eastwitch family ages ago, and have thrived in the area. The black walnut trees stand out in the memory of the place, as they are very beautiful, yet dark and sinister. The town itself is set in a low, flat area, but the region is very hilly, especially as one draws nearer The Lost Peaks, in an area of the Great Boreal Wood that the locals call The Deep Wood. As Eastwitch is found in the North, the winters are very harsh, while the summer can be very warm.

The area is covered in many small ponds and lakes. There are also many large lakes in the area, many over 10 miles long. Most of these are indicated on Map 1.

Eastwitch has two neighbours. To the west, down the Wen, is Argent, about 130 miles, as the crow flies. It is about a 200-mile journey down the river, or along the path on the north bank. To the north and east, is Mantlethorn, some 150 miles away as the crow flies, but about 190 miles as a man walks. There is no well-traveled path through the Mantlethorn, as one must pass by the Great Central Massif to get there, and it is a treacherous journey.

==History==

This settlement was originally founded in 1467 by Phin Eastwitch, a colonist and noble from the Capital. Phin built a great mansion on a hill on the north bank of the Wen, and cleared many fields for farming. He ran the mansion as a hunting lodge for the elite of Waldheim for many years, while people moved into the area, mostly along the southern bank. These people accepted the Eastwitch Patriarch as their lord and protector.

In the winter of 1660, the Patriarch of the family, then Arlos Eastwitch, died, leaving a young daughter as the heir to the family estate. This girl, Marla, married Obanyon Hannoch, another Waldheim noble, and the family name of Eastwitch was almost completely lost. Marla, and the remainder of the family retinue, moved to the Capital with Obanyon, leaving the large mansion and the small village without any Lord to rule it. While the Hannoch family did make infrequent use of the Mansion as a lodge, they accepted no responsibility for the village, or the people and their leadership.

In 1674, the citizens of the village created the first new government for their settlement, without really realizing it. They elected a man named Hendle Orlschuk as Judge, in order to settle some land disputes that had been growing in the village since the nobles left. Hendle found that he was soon being summoned on a weekly basis to settle this dispute or that, and also for other errands; the villagers came to him to announce marriages, deaths, and problems they were having with some of the local fauna. Hendle declared that he was having a difficult time running his own house, having to look after so many other problems, and the villagers agreed to paying him for his work as a full-time judge.

Hendle maintained his position as Judge for over 20 years, and helped the village to survive and indeed, thrive and grow. He created another municipal job; that of Sheriff, in the year 1690, to deal with problems from Argent. Since his office ended, there have been 4 judges, the current being a man named Rory Beorl. The current Sheriff is a man named Hansig Miller.

In the spring of 1739, the Hannoch family returned to Eastwitch, with the intention of putting the village under its thumb. Orbul Hannoch (then heir to the family estate) rode into town with a retinue, including armed guards, and announced that the Judge held an unlawful post, and that the village would answer to the Family from then on. The villagers didn’t take that proposition kindly; The Judge, Kenneth Tauringuard, met Orbul in the village centre, and declared Eastwitch free of Noble rule. Two of Orbul’s guards acted rather too hastily, attempting to apprehend Judge Tauringuard, and were struck down; the first by the Judge, and the second by a nearby Warden, who put an arrow him. The ranger’s next arrow found Orbul’s hat. His third arrow never left the bow; Orbul backed down, and called off his men. Shortly, the villagers gathered in a throng, and held the Noble and his retinue captive. The Judge would allow no other blood to be spilled, though, and they were released.

Days later, the Judge met with Orbul Hannoch to agree to the terms of their dwelling together, and the modern boundaries were drawn, and there has been peace ever since. Judge Tauringuard goes down in history as the first man to kill another in the village.

==Fauna==

Wildlife in this area of the north is still very abundant; while there are many men who come to Eastwitch specifically for the hunting, the area is by no means over-hunted. The hills around the village are full of deer, elk, black bear, brown bear, wolves, mountain lions, wild boar, and the occasional grizzly bear. Smaller animals in abundance include black squirrels, pferalupines, skunks, weasels, foxes, hedgehogs, opossum, rabbits, raccoons and badgers. Avian life includes many varieties of smaller birds such as blue jays, swallows, woodpeckers, and such. There are also larger birds such as wild turkeys, blood hawks, owls, ravens, geese and pheasants (many varieties). The streams, rivers and lakes of the area are full of bass, trout, pike and pickerel, as well as giant varieties of pike and garfish. All of the creatures listed above can be found in abundance.

There are also creatures that are less pleasant to see in the woods or fields, roaming the land about Eastwitch. The most commonly discussed monster would be the beast; living so close to the Mantlethorn, there is always discussion of beasts. Claims of beasts being spotted can be heard weekly in the village, and actual sightings of beasts may be just that common. Few men journey far past L. Eastwitch, as it is certain that the area above this lake is too near to Beast country. The creatures have been seen south of the village once in a while as well, and often hunt along the Wen.

A small tribe of giants makes it’s dwelling in the hills south and west of Argent. This tribe, called the Or’guun, often journey as far as the outskirts of the village, and one large attack was repelled in the fall of 1737. Few giants have been seen in the area since, but they are known to hunt the plains between the hills and the border of the Great Boreal Wood.

Bugbears can be found around Great Stag Lake, north and east of Argent. There are several small tribes, and they often range as far as Lake Brown Bear, though they are known to fear the rangers of Eastwitch, and rarely come more east of this. They do cause problems for Faermyr’s Rest and Thull, however, and hunt the north side of the Wen. 

The area around the Lost Peaks was once infested with ferals. For decades, the ferals and monstrous tribes of the Lost Peaks have been a constant source of labour for the vigilant rangers of Eastwitch. Today, they aren’t as numerous, but reports of feral sightings are still frequent, and the men at Galadron Mine kill several every month, especially towards late autumn. Many of the Rangers suspect that there are still lairs in Claymore and Hargon, where they breed and await a time when they can surface, and plunder Eastwitch.

As well as the ferals, giant wolves and great bears, the local fauna also includes a good number of ranging predators, wildmen and the occasional organized band of outlaws. There are small groups of strange savages sometimes found around Heather and Widow’s Lakes, and also east of Hargon, Mt. Solitary predators include dire wolves, giant spiders, and the deformed giants of the hills. Strange, huge birds – or some other sort of flying creature – have been reported from time to time.

Deep within the Great Boreal Wood there are creatures that are both fantastic and terrible. As one gets deep within the Forest, towards the Peakes of Saint Ulric, there are also Great Spiders, which every wise Ranger knows to fear. The Great Spiders are like the Saints; old, smart and terrible. They do not abide any sort of prodding into their unfathomably long lives, and their hunger is tremendous. The Great Spiders are few, and do not range far, but they are cunning and merciless, and to meet one is to become its dinner. 

==People==

The population of Eastwitch is about 450. Of this 76 are members of the Free Families (more on them below), and a few are rumoured to be of partial feral lineage. The village itself accounts for about 300 of these people, with the rest living on farms in the outlying area. There is also a mine in Galadron Mt., where 12 men dwell, and a couple dozen Rangers who roam the land. The people are of a young demographic; most men don’t live past 50 years, as they toil hard, and are subject to violent lives in the wilderness.

The people of Eastwitch are a sturdy lot, being tall and heavy of build for the most part. Some of the families have some of the Old Blood in their lineage, while others are certainly descended from the tall men of the Archipelago. Hair and eye colours vary, but there is a prominence of blonde hair and dark eyes. The people of Eastwitch speak with a very strong accent which the City folk of Argent quickly point out as “Hill Tongue” (pretending that they themselves have at least a few civilized graces that their hill cousins lack).

While Eastwitch is mostly a very friendly place, the folks that dwell there are very suspicious of outsiders, especially those that are clearly of an urban nature. They are friendly to the merchants and the hunters who periodically come to the village, and treat each other with great trust, respect and kindness. While they value rugged individualism and being self-sufficient, they are also quick to lend a hand when a building needs construction, and quick to offer food to those who have had a poor crop.

===Rangers; Wardens, Guides and Hunters===
Eastwitch has no standing army or militia of any kind, and therefore relies upon its Rangers for its defense. The term ‘ranger’ is not used very loosely in Eastwitch, as it can mean one of many things. 

====True Rangers====
(A ranger-class from the PHB) are part of a formal order in Eastwitch. The men of this order are called Wardens, and there are usually about 15 of these men, though their numbers are never known precisely by the rest of the villagers. They bear badges that are given them by senior Wardens. The badge is simply a wooden token, with a carved wolf’s paw print upon it, worn about the neck on a leather rope. The Wardens don’t have a rigid hierarchy, or many rules. They acknowledge each other’s authority based upon the skill and accomplishments of the individual. They are not really a secretive organization, but are very selective about to whom they give a Warden’s badge. They do organize their efforts, however, making sure that they are covering all important areas at once. Wardens who come into the village are greeted warmly by the people there, and offered food and lodging (for the ones who don’t have their own homes). There is no other pay, besides.

====Guides====
These are men who may be referred to as rangers from time to time, but they would never be called Wardens. These are the men who make a living from guiding hunts. While these men are skilled woodsmen and trackers, their skill does not match that of the Wardens, and their motivations are different. These men act as guides for hunters who come from afar to pay to take trophies from this area’s rich fauna. There are several in the village and in cabins in the nearby country side. Some of them also make some extra money on the side by selling pelts and meat. The gamekeeper at the Hannoch mansion is a Guide.

====Hunters====
These are men who subsist by hunting and trapping. They are also very skilled, but not nearly so as the Guides or the Wardens. These men make a living off of trapping lines (mainly for things such as rabbit, squirrels, and other small rodents) and hunting non-dangerous game (deer, elk, foxes and the like). They are frequently seen in town selling their catch. Most Households have at least one hunter, many having several.

===Families===
There are several family names that are worth knowing, and each is detailed below. The term Household is used in a particular way in Eastwitch; this term generally refers to an established, older family, of large size and with valuable assets. These should not be confused with nobles, as these people do not have a tenth as much wealth as the nobles of the cities. However, in this village, the Households do have some political power, and are certainly in little danger of starving.

====Beorl====
This family is rumoured to be descended from the Old Blood, many generations back. The men and women of this family are tall, heavily built, and bear long golden hair. The family has traditionally made a living as Hunters, and has also produced a few fine Wardens in the last few generations. This is a large family, and a very patriarchal one. The head of the house is Rory Beorl, who is also the current Judge.

====Bowyer====
One of the larger and older families in the village, the Bowyers are a prolific people, and are involved in many economic activities; gardening, fishing, hunting, trapping, and tanning.

====Hannoch====
This, of course, is a noble family rooted in The Capital. The family has always been involved with exploitation of frontier areas, and in 1664, they married into the opportunity to exploit the Great Boreal Wood. Their mansion just outside of the village, Eastwitch Grange, has been used as a hunting lodge since Phin Eastwitch came here in 1467, until this very day. While there was great tension between the Hannochs and the villagers after the events of Spring 1739, today this is mostly forgotten. The patriarch of the family, Orbul, has not returned to Eastwitch since that Summer. However, his eldest son, Pol, spends most of every year in Eastwitch where, truly, his heart is found. Pol is a kind and courteous man for a noble, and gets on well with most of the villagers. The family runs the largest farm in the area, laying claim to most of the property on the north bank of the river. They keep cattle and horses as well, though they do not sell many of these. The Household has in retinue, many hunters and trappers, including members of the family. Their chief gamekeeper is a man named Kareigh Surestone. He stays in Eastwitch year-round, and acts as a guide for most of the hunts that the family puts on. The area immediately surrounding the Mansion and its fields is famous for its black walnut trees. In fall, these provide a beautiful colour for the hillside, but in winter, and in black of night, the trees seem sinister and terrible.

====Fletcher====
One of the first families to move into the area, the Fletchers have been here a long time, and have grown and prospered. The original Fletcher got his name from his livelihood (which is common practice in Eastwitch), and to this day, the family produces arrows of the finest quality. Many among them are Hunters, and the family also operates a hunting lodge and has two Guides. The head of the family is Adegar Fletcher, an aged man who was a Guide of great ability. He is in his 75th year now, and is the oldest man in the village.

====Greyshield====
This family runs the second largest farm in the area (the largest belonging to the Hannochs), and are known to provide the village with most of its wine and beer. They have their own winery and distillery, and manage to do a little business in exporting (though you will never find their label in any city catalogue). They also grow staple foods such as potatoes, carrots, corn and many grasses. 

====Grimhaste====
These people are also tall and muscular. They are descendants of men from the Archipelago, and have a tradition of naming all their ancestors back dozens of generations. They are a proud family, and display many attributes of the Island, being fond of violence, and in general, being very lusty. They are tremendous fun at social gatherings, but are also slightly worrisome, as they seem to include fighting with their feasting. They are also very patriarchal. The current patriarch is a man of 50 years, named Koeridan. Koeridan is a former Warden, and only turned in his badge when his father died a few winters ago, to take care of the Household. Two of his sons are currently Wardens. The family also operates a decent farm.

====Hamstead====
The Hamsteads are a smaller family, with only remaining ten members. They are an old family, however, and formerly very large. It is said old Karadun Hamstead (who died eight winters ago) wronged a powerful Hag who lived (and might still) in a swamp near Doe Lake. It is said that the Hag cursed his line to end of his grandchildren. Indeed, the youngest Hamstead is twenty-three years of age, and none are pregnant. Regardless; the family owns a very large farm, and many of the men are also successful fishermen. Their large home, Hamstead Grange, is a beautiful structure, but is getting emptier by the year.

====Mason====
This is a family of builders, as the name reveals. The first Masons in the area arrived in 1468, and were brought here by the Eastwitch family to build their new home on the hill, where it stands today. These men were not likely all brothers, but were all given the same surname of Mason, regardless, and today they are perceived as having a common lineage. To this day, the men of the family all learn to build with stone, and their structures have always endured. They are in the habit of laying stones inscribed with dates, and are responsible for much of the preservation of the village’s history as a result. Today, they are also farmers and also involved in the little commerce that happens in the village. Julia Mason, the matriarch of the family, runs Mason’s Sundries in the village, which is the closest thing that there is to a general store in the village.

====Miller====
As could easily be guessed by their name, this family runs the mill in town, and has always done so quite profitably. The family is old and large, and is rumoured to be nearly as wealthy as the Hannochs. Indeed, their home is the second largest building in the village, and the mill is one of the finest examples of masonry in this part of the world. The family also runs a hunting lodge up in the hills, and operates a moderate sized farm. Gelbrook Miller, the head of the family, is a man of more than 60 years, and is commonly seen rousting about the village. He is very personable, and engages in all the pointless chatter he can find. Some say he is hoping to someday replace Judge Beorl, if old Rory would just hurry up and die. Rory does not seem to have any intention of giving up the ghost soon.

====Orlschuk====
This is also an old family, and with many interests. The family owns and operates the Green Grizzly, the only inn and tavern in the village. The family has always been in the business of logging, as well, and drives thousands of logs down the Wen into Argent every year. They own a small farm which they mostly use to grow components for their own wine, spirits and ale.

===The Free Families===
One can never be certain of the exact population of Eastwitch, but three families have split from the wider population, and their numbers are closely censed. There are currently 76 self-proclaimed 'Free Ffolk' in Eastwitch, divided among three families; the Boughberrys, the Greendales and the Greathorns.

====Boughberry====
The Boughberrys are of the most venerable lineage, though they are now thoroughly interbred with the other Free Families. They first came to the area in 1588, migrating from the south. They are a rural family, living mostly at the Boughberry farm west of the village. The patriarch of the family is Bill Boughberry, a fellow of venerable age and inscrutable character who throws the finest party “this side of the Mantlethorn”. This is the largest of the Free Families.

====Greendale====
The Greendales came from the Capital, supposedly to escape the law, in 1640. This family is more of a town-family, running a couple businesses, and being involved in all manner of social happenings. The patriarch, Ned Greendale, is a short fellow of unguessed age. He tells tales of ages past with a level of clarity and detail that make many a listener believe he is speaking from his own memories, rather than passing down a tale. Ned is very popular in the village, and is rumored to have great wealth hidden away under Greendale Hill.

====Greathorn====
The Greathorns are the most libertarian of the Free Families, and only marry their sons to women of the Free Families. The family also migrated from the south, arriving in Eastwitch in 1600. They live in a fortified castle-like structure east of the village, and are known to have a strong warrior tradition. They all bear fine arms which they build themselves in their fort. The patriarch, Elrach Greathorn, is an able warrior who participated in a great (though never specified) war in the south. The family supports itself through the sale of weapons, and also maintains a large garden/farm. They are also as expert in hunting as any inhabitant of Eastwitch is known to be.

There are many smaller families in the village and in the country side as well; mostly just 4-6 person families that have not been mentioned, that make their livelihoods from farming, fishing, logging, hunting, trapping, and other such things. There are also many single men in this area who are Guides, Hunters or Wardens, or lone loggers or other sorts of wilderness men who enjoy the seclusion.

===City Folk===
It is worth mentioning how much the locals in Eastwitch dislike and distrust what they call ‘City Folk’. What they are primarily referring to is people from Argent. As kind a place as Eastwitch is, the closest city is a den of thieves, murderers and other miscreants, who none of the villagers have any patience for. Argent is indeed a nasty place, which many villagers have had the misfortune of visiting. All come back with wild tales about what passes for civilized in cities, and many have a story about how they were duped, robed, cheated, attacked, or worse. As a result, the people of Eastwitch are very suspicious of known Argentans, and see people from any other city in the same light. The people of Eastwitch are even more suspicious of people who carry daggers, as this seems to be a common accessory to the Argentan wardrobe. They call daggers, and other small swords ‘left handed blades’, and tend not to carry them at all (though hunting and long-knives are acceptable). In more than one incident in the past, charlatans from Argent have come to Eastwitch to fool the villagers out of their money, so their distrust of these urban people is not completely unfounded.

==Religion==

The people of Eastwitch are by no means a religious lot. There are no temples or shrines in the village, and the people see really organized religion as a trapping of urban life. They are thus skeptical of priests who roll into town, and are very opinionated about certain religions, based upon past visits by specific priests. 

==Economics==

Eastwitch is by no means either wealthy or poor. The presence of a noble family from the Capital is a good economic indicator, but so also is the fact that 80% of the men are engaged in primary industry. Below, each level of industry is examined.

===Primary Industry===
Farming is the single largest employment for men in Eastwitch. There are 10 large farms in the area, and many smaller ones besides. The large farms have anywhere from 4 to 20 men working them (the largest is the Greyshield farm, with 20 men). The bulk of crops include corn, potatoes, wheat and other grasses, but smaller plots for carrots, some herbs, onions, cabbage, and pumpkins and a few other varieties are planted as well. The farmers in Eastwitch do not keep much livestock; they rely upon hunters to provide meat for their tables. Many do keep chickens, though, and dairy cows. The Hannoch farm also has a sizable flock of sheep which are used for their wool.

In any given logging season (generally considered to begin in early spring, and ending just prior to the harvest), there are 20-40 loggers, who will run the bulk of their cut down the Wen into Argent at the end of the season. The loggers all get together for this run, sending thousands of trees down the river, and putting on a display of agility and bravery, on top of the spinning logs, that the children annually flock to the river’s edge to watch. The logs fetch anywhere from 10 to 30 silvers in Argent, and about a third that price in the village.

A small group of miners also makes a living deep in the Great Boreal Wood, at Galadron Mine. There are currently 12 men who live up there who mine for whatever they can find. The mine has produced iron, copper, lead, and tin. The men dream of the day when they will strike gold or silver, but it hasn’t happened yet. These men work hard throughout the year, and produce ingots at their own refinery, for sale in the village. They sell to the various men who run smithies first, and any merchants who happen to be in the village second. They come down out of the hills twice or three times per year, with their donkeys under great burden. 

Hunters and fishermen are also considered primary industry, and account for just about all the men of the village in some capacity. The men of Eastwitch place great value on a man’s ability to hunt, and almost all men in the village make a whole-hearted attempt at hunting many times each year. True Hunters (as discussed above) hunt and trap year round, and account for perhaps 30 or 40 men. These men tend to be solitary types, working in groups of no more than four. They are seen coming and going year round in the village market, as they must unload their harvest quickly. They provide almost all of the village’s meat, and much of its skins for clothing.

===Secondary Industry===
Eastwitch does not manufacture many items for export, with a few exceptions. The Bowyer family runs a very efficient and profitable tannery, and also manages to make a surplus of items such as mittens, cloaks, tunics and breeches from hide. The Orlschuk and Greyshield families manage to export a good amount of wine and whiskey to Argent, and some of the fine weapons that the Great Horns make also manage export. As well, the Fletchers make large quantities of arrows which are also exported. Little besides is exported from this small village.

Most of the secondary industry of the village is consumed by the village. Most of the larger households produce baked goods, pottery (clay and earthenware), baskets, simple furniture, and their own drink (beer, wine or spirits). Some smaller families make a living producing furniture, hunting supplies, and clothing. There is also a black smith (a very busy one), and the Mason family, who do quite a lot of the finer construction jobs in the village.

===Tertiary Industry===
This is limited to very few shoppes and businesses. The Green Grizzly is the only inn/tavern in Eastwitch, and Mason’s Sundries is the only real general store. However, the Greendale family runs an emporium of sorts (actually, a glorified trading post/hock shoppe). The greatest amount of service industry in Eastwitch comes from the guided hunts during the summer, autumn and (occasionally) winter. The Hannochs, Beorls, Fletchers, and Millers all run hunting camps which provide a great source of external revenue for the village. The locals, of course, don’t like to admit that they need this money, and don’t like sharing their resources, but the fact of the matter is that this is the greatest source of external revenue for the village. A typical hunt (for deer, elk, bear, etc.) lasts a tenday, and costs the hunter anywhere from 20 gold to 40 gold. Hunting for more dangerous game (such as ferals, great bears, and even ‘wildmen’) can cost the hunter as much as 200 gold/tenday. This is a tremendous amount of money for the village.
