Wulfhart Beorl speaks on hunting orcs...
----

It has long been one of our greatest labours, keeping the orcs of this region out of Eastwitch, and continues to be even today. I shall tell you much of what I have learned in my many years hunting these things.

First, I should say, there are four distinct tribes in the High Forest, close to our home. The largest and most powerful are the Black Claws. These come from the Lost Peaks, from many holes in Claymore and Hargon Mountains. I shall go into the Black Claws in greater detail in a moment. 

There are also the Blood Fangs, which reside mostly in an area around Doe Lake, and extending until the Deep Forest. The Blood Fangs have always been at odds with some of the Sylvan Folk of the Deep Woods, mainly the few Elves and Centaurs of that region. I suspect that some Great Spiders actually manipulate bands of Blood Fangs.

The Karud’Kahn live mostly in the heel of Forest south of Great Bear Lake. The Karud’Kahn are a great concern for us, as they live very close to Eastwitch, and are very brave individually. Only our most seasoned Wardens are sent to deal with the Karud’Kahn.

Finally are the Gelled’Kahn. They are break away tribe from the Karud’Kahn, being led by a ranging nomadic sort of orc named Gelled. We are pretty sure that Gelled was killed many winters ago, and a couple times since. Likely, this tribe is in the habit of naming all their Great Chiefs Gelled. This tribe is a little more insidious; they are of a great number, but in many small bands that do not make homes. They range all through the High Forest, and out into the Grasslands in the West. There have even been reports of them in the foothills of the Star Mountains, which makes them the furthest ranging of all the tribes, and probably the largest, though the least unified.

== The Black Claws ==

But I shall talk today mostly of the Black Claws. The Black Claws are very patriarchal; they draw their lineage back a couple dozen generations which makes them unique in two ways; first that their culture is cohesive enough to keep track of such things, and secondly that they have been around for dozens of generations without becoming fragmented or extinct. This tribe is led by the descendants of Krahgar Black Claw, who is said to have destroyed a small band of ettins who made Claymore Mountain their home. Thus, they call this Krahgar Mountain, which is a valuable place for them.

The descendants of this mighty orc are strong and dangerous indeed; they fight amongst themselves constantly, with the strongest rising to the position of Head Chief of the Tribe. Any Black Claw that can speak it’s lineage, and with the blood of Krahgar in him, may rule, but only by killing the current Head Chief. This violent tribe is broken down into many smaller bands, which have Chiefs leading them who are also of Krahgar’s lineage. 

The bands range just about everywhere within 100 miles of Claymore. They usually bear a banner, flag, emblem or trophy of their Chief as a symbol of the band. This symbol usually has the Black Claw emblem in it, or is a stylized version of it. The band of the Head Chief is called the Marug Lyrelian in their tongue, which means roughly ‘home of our blood’ or ‘father’s house’, or some such thing. This band almost always resides in their ancestral mountain home, but is often moved. They keep as their token, a great standard of bear hide stretched over a round shield or wooden hoop, painted red and black with the Tribe emblem. Much like this one on the wall. The Tribe all believes this token to be Krahgar’s own shield, but I can tell you that this trophy on the wall here was venerated as just that, but was quickly replaced after it’s owner died, and it was taken.

The Marug Lyrelian is currently led by an uncharacteristically clever orc named Gor’ged. Gor’ged has been particularly careful about letting members of the other bands know where he is keeping the Marug Lyrelian, and has proved difficult to track down. All of the bands must pay him some tribute, which they do at every third full moon at a feast that the Tribe calls Quillen Marugk, or ‘feeding Father’. We know that this feast is held at a particular spot at the base of Claymore, and that the Marug Lyrelian are always the last to arrive. This makes it difficult to get a good opportunity to do in the Head Chief, as there will be hundreds of orcs there already, with representatives of all the bands, and sometimes even members of the other Tribes. At this feast, the Chief of every band must offer the Head Chief a gift. If he is not happy with it, violence ensues, usually to the detriment of the offending lesser Chief, who will be replaced quickly. This feast and gift giving keeps the Marug Lyrelian strong; the gifts are usually slaves, weapons, food supplies, armour, or moneys, which add to the resources of war for the Marug Lyrelian. 

Other bands are semi-nomadic, building temporary houses out of wood or hides and brush, and hunt an area until there is little left, or until they are displaced by another band, or a band from another Tribe. These bands number from 40-80 members, with more than half being able-bodied males who can fight. Each band usually has many of it’s females and young being contributed to the Marug Lyrelian. The Marug Lyrelian numbers over 200 by our guesses, but any number could prove true.

We know of 15 bands other than the Marug Lyrelian, and thus estimate the population of the Black Claws to be somewhere between 600-1000. This is a manageable number. It is large enough to keep things such as ettins and hill giants out of the area (which the Black Claws hunt down relentlessly and with great glee, reliving Krahgar’s glory), and not so large that it comes swelling out of the hills and engulfs us. But we are partly to blame for this.

The numbers of the Black Claws and the other Tribes are dangerous by most standards, but we have a way of keeping them in check. Fear is a great motivation in the lives of all orcs; fear of nasty elves, of men with sword and armour, of their hateful gods, and of their rulers and kinsmen. The most direct source of fear in the life of any orc is usually his Chief. If they fear their Chief more than they fear our arrows, then we have trouble; that particular band will become brave and begin to expand. So we take measures to ensure that we are feared more than the Chief. We single out particularly large and fearsome orcs to make examples of, in our own way. If lesser orcs find the corpse of a greater orc strung up in a tree with many horrible injuries inflicted upon him, they will usually not tread further down that path.

== Time of the Chief ==

Once in a while a band leader will rise to power who is too ambitious for his own good. This Chief will cause great fear amongst his people, but also instill in them some resolve to inflict themselves upon the land. He may have smaller bands swallowed up, and start to look like a threat to our Home. This is when it is time to start ‘hunting chevrons’, as they put it in Cormyr. We start by hunting this Chief’s lackeys, or Sub Chiefs. If he does not get the message, then we start to knock off his personal guard. After that, if the ambitious Chief still does not change his ways, we make an effort to do him in personally. We have let many a band leader live for several winters, because that band leader knew to fear us, and spread this fear to others he met. We do not make efforts to preserve these ‘enlightened’ orcs, but we do not hunt them as relentlessly as we hunt others. Indeed, no fifteen men can hope to keep as many as hundreds of orcs at bay, and we only have perhaps three, or four at most, of our people tasked to the Black Claws at any one time. So we have to choose our targets carefully. Of course, we engage any targets of opportunity that fall in our path as well.

The Black Claws are a very successful Tribe for a very good reason; they have a very safe hole to multiply in. They have a cycle of cocooned growth and expansion that is very reliable. Out of every ten years, they will spend three or four consecutively, inside their subterranean home beneath Claymore and Hargon, breeding, rearing and training their young. There will still be small elements of each band at large in the Woods, but only as hunters for the enclosed members of the Tribe. I estimate that they have almost 90% of the entire Tribe holed up at this point in the cycle, and at this time they are cut off from our hunting, for the most part. We still hunt their providers in the woods, but this becomes more difficult, as they leave only the most cunning and able hunters at large, and in small numbers. They are more difficult to find. 

After they have had their fill of dark holes and procreation, they swell forth, and the bands go their own ways, wreaking the havoc upon the Woods that we dread. Their population dwindles dramatically at this point, as they struggle against the Woods, us, and themselves, but it provides valuable experience for those who are strong enough to survive. These go back to breed, unhindered, in their holes, and the cycle is complete.

Currently, we are at the very beginning of their swelling forth, and there is much work to be done.
