The first Wardens in the area started to turn up in sometime around the 1600’s. At that time, Eastwitch was a settlement of only about 150 people, but it was starting to grow. In those days, the Feral Tribes in the neighboring woods started to take note of the vulnerable settlement just next door to them, and began to get too close. It is known that in the autumn of 1608, a man who is only remembered as The Shade of Eastwitch, single handedly destroyed the four bands of ferals that made up a tribe called Cruel Fang. This Tribe was scattered and destroyed, and few now remember their name.

However, details of this ranger are still clearly remembered and retold. Likenesses of him hang on the walls of Eastwitch Grange, the Green Grizzly, and in the homes of many of the older families. Though they all vary slightly, one detail does not; the amulet he wore, which bears a carven wolf’s paw upon simple wood. In most pictures, he is depicted as wearing no armor, and carrying no weapons but a knife. He always shown wearing a mask over his upper face with holes for the eyes, and always with long hair worn in a single braid down the back. There is speculation that the Shade was a member of the Eastwitch family, or a friend from some far-off place, but none came to know him, and his real name is lost.

At any rate, over the next couple of years, some of the men from Eastwitch started to take to the woods and hills, coming back to town rarely, and always with new scars or fresher wounds. They spoke little of their deeds, but always had some strange loot to trade or sell, much of it clearly taken from the lifeless hands of ferals and other crude smiths. By 1615, as is recorded in two paintings found in Eastwitch Grange, two men came into the village who both wore tokens similar to the Shade’s. The men also had upon their face, tattoos of a blue colour, in similar styling to some of those found upon the faces of the Grimhaste men. It is known that at least one Grimhaste man is currently a Warden, so it is supposed that these men were some of the first of this family in the area.

While these two tattooed men have no names that survive history, their deeds have lived on. It was these two men who repelled a large number of beasts from the Mantlethorn in 1616. In this year, the beacons at Beast’s Peak and Signal Peak were built by them, and they taught men of the village how to use them. While there have been many problems with beasts since that time, there has never been an invasion of any sort, and few lives have been lost to these creatures.

From this time on, there are several recorded Wardens, who have their efforts immortalized in paintings that can be found all over Eastwitch. The classic painting is of a lone man with either a bow or an axe, stalking among the orchards or the black walnut trees, always with their token in plain view. Dozens of these types of painting can be found all over Eastwitch.

Today, the Wardens are more numerous (it is supposed) than ever, but they are seen less often. This is because they have pushed back the radius of their influence, and go further afield now. They are almost never seen stalking the orchards or the tree lines of the farms anymore, as their work draws them deeper into the woods, and further into the grasslands.

However, they must turn up in the village at some point to resupply themselves, and they often come to the Green Grizzly to listen to the talk of the people there. All would like to hear of the activities of the Wardens, but it is known that they say little about their deeds, and are never flamboyant when a tale can be told. They do inform the listeners at the Grizzly, in a matter-of-fact way, what the status of certain Tribes are, what new creatures they have seen, and so on. They do not weave elaborate tales however, and most people in Eastwitch know that you don’t ask a Warden questions; if they have something to say, they will say it in their own time and fashion.

Many of the Wardens of Eastwitch are publicly known, as they are drawn from the population of a small settlement. When the son of a notable family goes missing for several months without the family making a fuss about it, it can be safely guessed that the boy has gone to train with the Wardens. When that boy returns, looking leaner and using fewer words, there is no guessing left. But, many of the Wardens are men who none of the people of Eastwitch would know. Men show up at the Green Grizzly wearing the tokens, and acting particularly ‘Wardenish’, whom none can place. 

Wardens are picked from the finest hunters, guides and other woodsmen of the village, for the most part. Often, a father will take a promising son or nephew into the order. Some men bring in a competent brother, nephew, friend or other peer that seems to hold promise as a Warden. But some men come from far away, outside the village. These are likely men that the Wardens meet on their long and distant journeys, but there is much guessing as to the nature of these men. 

Nor are there physical limitations to membership. Steadfast Boughberry, a very short man, is known to have been in the order for at least 10 years, and many Greathorns also have been in service of the order. As well, there is currently a female of unknown name and origin who bears the Token of the Wardens. She has been seen along the West Road to Argent a couple of times, but says even less than most Wardens. She has earned the name Road Warden, and is known to have helped travelers on more than one occasion. 

Treatment of Wardens while in the village is a matter of unwritten rules of etiquette. No resident of Eastwitch asks what the Warden has been doing, or what is going on in the Wilds close to home. All residents offer them a place to sleep, meals, and what ever supplies they have to spare. Though many are members of large households who have a place to stay, others are not from Eastwitch. These are always put up at the Green Grizzly free of charge, if they desire it. Gemedun always offers, and Wardens need ever ask. Gemedun also gives them all the drink they would like for free. People don’t offer them drinks, to avoid the unpleasant situation that the Warden must decline; they drink little alcohol, but do like to spend most of their time in the village at the Grizzly where others are drinking (too much). The Wardens usually have money after they trade their booty from the field at the Emporium, but on rare occasions they do accept some supplies from villagers.
