An excerpt from the Edge of the Wild, by Jacob Woolson of Lord's University, Waldheim...
----

==Foreword==

It is the curious fortune of the professional ethnographer to find in his station a union between scholarly responsibility and morbid fascination. Until my personal involvement in the events that my academic duties dictate I document in the pages which follow, I had always considered my choice of career to be a charmed one. With the blessings of my university benefactors, I was able for many years to agreeably pursue my own personal hobby, which is the collection and study of tales of the supernatural. Only now, in the autumn of my days, have I learned that the student of folklore and superstition pursues his calling not only at the edges of the known world, but also at the edges of reason itself.

In my years as a Professor of the Academy, I have many times been witness to young men who, upon their return from months of perilous research at the rag-end of civilization, abandon their studies at the very point of completion. Far preferable, it would seem to these poor souls, to take up the simple life of a country schoolmaster, than to relive their nightmarish sojourns at quill’s tip in the composition of their doctoral treatise. When first faced with the prospect of writing this volume, I must confess to having been similarly tempted. Alas, I am not a young man, and am too accustomed to my libraries and luncheons to start life anew outside these ivied walls. Thus I have spent these last months in the unpleasant reminiscence of the discomfort, grief and mind-numbing terror of the last year. I hesitate to say that the account that follows is of twisted facts as related by a reasonable mind, for any sane reader must surely think the inverse. Yet though this diffidence is evidence enough of my lingering sanity, it offers no comfort, for to know that what I have seen and witnessed lacks the excuse of madness but reinforces my horror.

With this foreword, I am come at last to the end of my travails.

The ill-advised volume before you, my dear, unfortunate reader, is my final account of the events that led me to spend a year in the distant village of Eastwitch, in the north-westernmost district of these provinces, on the very border of the Great Boreal Wood. Herein, I have attempted to document much of the history and lore of that joyless place, and though I fear that the careful reader will look askance at my relation of certain events, I maintain that I am guilty of no fabrication. Should any say that such a declaration is proof of madness, I can only report that such accusations are, in a way, an affirmation of my tale. As regards to the village of Eastwitch, it is only in madness that truths may be properly told.

These are the last words I shall write on the matter, and with them I banish the name of Eastwitch from my lips and pen in perpetuity. To those who lack the wisdom to return this book to the anonymity of the Lyceum shelves, I offer these final words of advice. Let your journey begin and end with my words, for Eastwitch is no place for visitors. Content yourself, gentle reader, with ghost stories, and trifle no more with ghosts.

— Jacob Woolson
Professor and Cultural Surveyor
Lord’s Academy and Lyceum
June 15, 1741

==IMPETUS==
To begin my tale, I must acknowledge the debt I owe to my colleague, Thomas Spindle, Lord’s Geographer, through whose friendship I first came to know the name of Eastwitch. I say I owe a debt to my friend, yet I pray to all the Saints I never find like coin with which to repay him, for both our sakes.

It happened, one late summers night three years past, in August of 1738, that I was to meet Spindle at our club in the market district opposite the Academy Grounds, where we regularly held retreats on Thursday evenings. Though I had been slightly tardy myself, it was not without some annoyance that I found myself awaiting Spindle’s arrival, which did not come until I had sat for more than an hour in the smoky torchlight of the club’s outer garden. The gruff welcome I had been rehearsing went unspoken as his bowed legs waddled over to the table, his lean, awkward figure made even more so by an oversized leather satchel that he carried before him in both gangling arms, as one might a sack of grain, or potatoes. With an air of almost gleeful anticipation, he set the satchel down on the table and bade me open it. Pulling the satchel open, I found a large book, ungainly in size, and of fine craftsmanship.

The hefty leather-bound folio appeared to be a rather tedious index record of births, deaths, marriages, political appointments, legal decisions and the like from the north-western provinces. Indeed, it seemed remarkable only insofar as it had actually been pulled from whatever forgotten shelf Spindle had discovered it upon – a fate, I was sure, that made it unique among its dusty fellows. For the most part, the contents of the book were beneath the interest of all but the most exacting of genealogists or historians (scholars that have little use for books such as these, anyway, as they tend to overly complicate matters). The history that can be gleaned from such words is that of effects, not causes, and of little interest to the scholar who deals in stories and tales. In a rather pugnacious mood, I remarked as much to Spindle, hoping to engage my friend in a hearty debate on the matter. He chose to ignore my comment and began to describe how he had come upon the book.

From Spindle’s account, I learned that the survey was of recent vintage (compiled in only 1726) and had been commissioned as part of a grand scheme by the late Jeremiah Murdoch, a former distinguished citizen of the distant river-town of Havilah, and an example of that class of men for which history is beginning to employ the term ‘capitalist’. Among the countless other endeavours that marked a spectacular career, Murdoch had sponsored the authorship and publication of a number of surveys of some of the most desolate frontier areas, with an eye to identifying (and no doubt staking claim to) potential resources for his various commercial interests, which at the height of his success included three shipyards, twelve mines and several dozen livestock operations. His sudden death in 1727, under circumstances described by the innocent as mysterious and the cynic as inevitable, had seen his many projects grind to a halt, and his massive estate carved up by relations and creditors. A somewhat fortunate (from the Academy’s perspective) result of the outpouring of claims and counterclaims, was that the publishing house commissioned by Murdoch was unable to secure payment for what had been its major enterprise – Murdoch’s encyclopaedic survey - and was financially ruined as a result. The unfinished collection was donated to the university, and Spindle, as Professor of Geography, was asked to catalogue the works. I did not doubt that the work would outlast my friend.

My own small role in these events of this book began that August evening over our usual pipe and cider, when Spindle showed me that tome from the Murdoch Survey. After his account of the book’s provenance, my friend opened the book to a page he had previously marked, and directed my gaze to some annotations in blue ink that had been made in the margins of the text.

In a section of the book that dealt with a backwater hamlet with the unfamiliar name of Eastwitch, a sturdy and educated hand had made the following annotation: “Gypsy curse, cf. Dramehl, 1661”. In the tight columns of what I saw to be a death register that dated to 1725, I counted fourteen names underlined by the same ink. All bore the surname Hamstead, and each death marked the anniversary of that previous. Beside the final name, Lazarus Hamstead, who had died in 1724, the words “Last of the Hamsteads” had been noted. I started slightly when I noted that the man would have been in his 111th year when he died, and the realization came upon me with a faint and uneasy feeling of grievous tragedy.

Spindle eagerly showed me other annotations to the records. The hanging of a woman named simply “Dramehl, Gypsy” in 1661, I noted with increasing interest, had been presided over by the same Lazarus Hamstead, then Judge of Eastwitch. The crime in question had been the murder of a girl described with the words “Lise, Gypsy, age 13” that had been committed that same year. My eyes quickly followed a spidery line of blue ink to the date of the murder. It corresponded exactly to the dates on which the fourteen members of the Hamstead family died many years later. Despite the unsettling coincidence of dates, it was the single, damning interrogative “Ghost?” written in the same blue ink, through which the twisted clutches of fate grasped me.

== The Hamsteads of Eastwitch ==
thumb|Gypsy Dramehl, hanged 1661
There is a brand of tale that can be found in any culture I have studied, and any part of the world I have been to, and this is the Ghost Story. Tales of the restless dead are told by man and woman, young and old, dim and wise. They are enjoyed by all, believed by many, and strike terror into the unfortunate few who, like I, have played a part in a genuine Ghost Story. In the summer of 1738 I happened upon a rare tale about the Hamstead Family of Eastwitch. The tale had many elements of traditional ghost stories that I have encountered a dozen times or more, but it had a quality all its own. Though I came to learn many details of this story, I will give the abbreviated version of what I learned at the University here.

In 1661, Judge Lazarus Hamstead of Eastwitch tried a Gypsy woman who had come to Eastwitch with a small band of her ilk. One of the Gypsy girls in the band had turned up dead, and Lazarus was determined that the fortune teller would hang for this transgression. This woman’s name was not known to me at the time, but I would later find out that she was known as Dramehl. At the trial, she spoke out against the Judge, accusing him of not only killing the child, but violating her first, and offering her mortal soul to some obscure devil. The accusations only sped the proceedings and hastened the punishment, which was hanging by the neck until death.

Dramehl was duly hung in the graveyard of the town, but the hanging did not go well. After she had ‘danced on air’ for some time, she began to laugh, and came once again to lucidity after her choking throes of death. Her hands had come free, and she pointed one vindictive finger at Judge Hamstead and spoke this curse; “You shall watch your line falter, as you watched the noble line of that child’s family falter in your very grasp. And you shall suffer it long. You shall suffer the loss thirteen years; one year of death for each of that child’s years of life. ” And with this, Dramehl died.

This ‘witches curse’ made quite a stir in Eastwitch, I am sure. But I am also sure it would have diminished, as Lazarus’ health refused to do so. The man begat son after son, and the family flourished and prospered for three more generations. In fact, Lazarus’ very son, Ebenezer, and Ebenezer’s son, Naaman, also rose to the office of Judge of that rustic village. Certainly, the witch’s curse was all but forgotten. However, it was remembered anew on a chill autumn morning of 1712. That day, the healthy and venerable Lazarus Hamstead, at the respectable age of 100 years, awoke to madness. Though his mind had remained keen through all his long years, it appeared to have been sundered that day, as he crawled all day, clutching at an imagined child, of whom he begged forgiveness. His family attempted to hide this behaviour, but it persisted for days, then weeks. After a month, it was well known in the village that the Old Judge (as he was called) was struggling with the ever-present ghost of the Gypsy girl who had died, presumably by his lust and wrath, whom only he could see.

== The Curse Strikes ==

Lazarus awoke one October morning, and was free of the haunting. He came down to breakfast, to find his family in mourning. In the night, his son, Ebenezer had passed away. That was just the beginning. At the time of Ebenezer’s death, there were exactly 13 Hamsteads living, including the Old Judge, and this significant number was not lost on the man. He knew immediately that his transgressions had been revisited upon him, and that he had years of death to come. And indeed, death did visit that family year after year from then on. Further, the young women of the family all proved barren, and those that were unmarried could not be wed, the fear of the Curse was so strong. By 1716, it was common knowledge that the Hamstead family was cursed, and that many of them pleaded with unseen ghosts to spare them from their patriarch’s payment for his sins. The Old Judge himself took to wandering the many grave yards of the village, pleading with ghosts unseen, or imagined, but all to no good end.

In 1722, the family was down to just three members; the Old Judge, Judge Naaman Hamstead, and 12 year old Lucy Hamstead. Eager to do anything to end the Curse of the Gypsy, Judge Naaman Hamstead repealed an old law which prevented girls from marrying until they were 14, in order for Lucy to marry before what everyone in the village perceived to be her early but inevitable doom. It was hoped that a change of name might let the poor child survive the curse, and it was the Kavenaugh family that answered the call to duty. Benjamin Kavenaugh, then patriarch of that Established Family, married off his son, Nathan, to the girl, and all hoped for an end to the Curse.

But the Curse would not subside. On the day of the wedding, Naaman Hamstead actually dropped dead whilst performing the ceremony and the wedding was not completed. News of the dead judge spread like cotton on the wind, and the entire town was astir. Not to be bested by the overt power of the Curse, the Gentlemen of Eastwitch defiantly elected a new judge, Enos Miller, on the spot, and the ceremony was completed in angst, and many hoped that the quick thinking and actions of the men of Eastwitch could best the Curse of the Gypsy, and save Lucy Hamstead.

However, the cruel fate of that family could not be averted. In 1723, on the 62nd anniversary of the hanging of Dramehl (rumoured to have been 62 years of age at the time of her death), a Gypsy caravan came to Eastwitch, bringing ill tidings with it. As one could well imagine, the Caravan was not well-received, and the people of Eastwitch did all but run them out. However, one young Gypsy girl presented to the Courthouse with a rather interesting story. She claimed to have been married to Nathan Kavenaugh in Havilah (the closest large town) years before, and challenged his marriage to the Hamstead girl. To support her claim, she brandished a wedding band with the Kavenaugh family crest upon it. In the face of such bald evidence, Nathan admitted his association and matrimony of the Gypsy girl, though with the deepest dread and regret possible. It was with an even heavier heart that Judge Enos Miller had to declare the marriage of Nathan Kavenaugh and Lucy Hamstead annulled, and the village lamented. Nathan Kavenaugh, ashamed and forlorn, left with the Gypsy caravan that day, and his name is not spoken in Eastwitch to this day, in even the grimmest oaths or promises.

So it came to pass that Lucy fell ill. Young Doctor Miller had the unfortunate duty of declaring her infected with a malignant venereal disease, and she died a slow, consuming and miserable death in that year of 1723, leaving but one Hamstead, the Old Judge, Lazarus, alive in his 111th year.

By this time, the family had lost pretty much everything. It was several years since they could keep servants and workers on their farm, and the family had been failing. Now, with only the Old Judge left at the old, lonesome house, the Family was in complete ruin. From the day of Lucy’s death, Lazarus began to show his age. The once vital old man quickly became demented and withered, and was often found wandering and ranting, scarcely dressed, in all parts of the country side. Those that saw him testify that he was a haunted man, and that he invoke the names of all his dead relatives, and of the Gypsy witch and Gypsy girl, and pleaded forgiveness.

Finally, in the dead of winter, in 1724, Lazarus Hamstead was found swinging by a rope hung from the Walnut tree in the village graveyard, where, 64 years earlier (at this time, it was rumoured that the Gypsy Witch had been hung in her 64th year, rather than her 62nd) Dramehl had swung. He left a crazed, scrawled note under a rock on top of the Gypsy girl’s unnamed grave, and though it was, for the most part, illegible, it was clearly a confession and plea for apology of some sort.

This was not the end, though. The Witch’s Curse had not totally run its course.
