The Dunwood forms the northern border of the Great Dale, weaving its way south of the Giantspire Mountains and the plains of Narfell until it peters out near the Cold Road in the east. Once the Dunwood was a northern twin to the Forest of Lethyr, but then the Rotting Man disturbed the wreckage of Dun-Tharos, the ancient Nar capital.  Now the blightlords and the Rotting Man are no more; ageless demons in their hundreds stir within Dunwood instead. The Nentyarch of Yeshelmaar is occupied in a fierce contest against the demons of Dun-Tharos. His greatest wish is to eliminate them entirely, but this goal is slow in coming.

Once a mixture of deciduous and evergreen trees everywhere the only semblance of this now lies along its southern border and quickly becomes a soggy taiga poisoned with blood, disease, and madness as one travels northward into the dark wood.  Treacherous muskeg bogs fester above a deep layer of permafrost, giving rise to clouds of mosquitoes in the Dunwood's short summer. In its northwestern reaches, the forest climbs sharply towards the Giantspire Mountains, covering rugged foothills and deep shadowed vales. Like all of the Great Dale, it also rises toward the east, and it's easternmost reaches are quite hilly. The forests narrows to a narrow band only twenty-five miles wide about two-thirds of the way along its length, moving from west to east. 

Just to the northwest of the forest is the Damaran settlement of Tellreth, hard by the Long Road. For years, the Circle of Leth worked to stop the encroachment of Damaran and Impulturian loggers into the western reaches of the Dunwood, but the Nentyarch's followers lack the numbers to adequately patrol this area, and have fallen back into the Forest of Lethyr.  The small logging community aptly named, Timberton, was recently established by Lady Murove of Uthmere.  Her crew has reported seeing strange creatures watching them as they work in the forest and are concerned with their safety.  With the vacuum left by the Circle's leaving the settlers now face whatever evils lurk under the rotting eaves of Dunwood alone.

category:Great Dale Geography
