A haven for those oppressed or made orphan by insane cultists and the horrors they worship.  The Watchers walk the fine line between justice and vengeance.  It's high ranking members know no pity or fear, and they freely use questionable tactics to progress their goals of utterly cleansing Impiltur of demonkind.  Based in New Sarshel, the Watchtower attracts members who can no longer tolerate the presence of demonic cults and worshippers and the blatant corruption of the city lords.  A Grand Council of inept rulers who are impotent in the face of their nation's inexorable decay.  The lords do nothing to combat the spreading stain of demon worship that holds Impiltur in the grip of terror, so others have taken on the responsibility of mounting this reformation, they are known as the Watchtower, Impiltur's last bastion of freedom.

The Bastion of Freedom is a sizable compound situated on a large barren hill just outside the walls of New Sarshel.  At its centre lies a tall stone tower that pushes 150 feet in height, skirting it are smaller buildings of timber and stone used as studies, dining halls, training facilities, libraries, and dormitories.  The entire compound is wrapped in a tall stone wall that serves to both protect its inhabitants and provide an ominous appearance.

The organization is composed of some 350-450 men and women at any given time.  The membership fluctuates due to the dangerous nature of their way of life: they hunt demons and other foulspawn.  So they actively recruit young hopefuls from New Sarshel and the surrounding communities to bolster their ranks, usually casualities or orphans of the underground war between Impiltur and demonic cults such as the Fraternity of Tharos or Morthak's Chosen.  Most members are some form of divine combatant, be it a Paladin or Cleric of Oghma who form the backbone of the order's strength, or the Avenger who can singlehandedly uproot a Fraternity Meeting.  While most understand the value of knowledge and align their beliefs with that of Watchtower not all are Oghmanytes.  Among their number are several druids, rangers, and wardens, stalwart defenders of nature who see the growing influence of demonkind as a blight on the land.  While their means and ways of life are different, their goals remain the same and through their combined effort have managed to resist the burgeoning tide of darkness that pours forth from the enemy's camp.

The members of Watchtower seek out the hidden, forgotten, and often illegal knowledge concerning the rites, practices, and secrets of the denizens of the Abyss.  They search through libraries, tombs, and archaeological sites.  Interrogate scholars, historians, and demonic worshippers, and explore just about every other means of acquiring abyssal knowledge they can think of.  The Watchtower has amassed a compendium of knowledge on the "how to's" of finding, combating, and purging demons, devils, and aberrations.  This information is shared freely with passing adventurers as well as with the various city guard and standing armies of Impiltur and neighbouring nations.

Their geographic area of influence spans a radius of about 80 miles or so.  Specifically, north to the Old Water, west to the old Herald's Road (that runs the length of the Earthspur Mountains foothills) and south-west, half way to the city of Lyrabar.  For the last 40 years they have destroyed several sites of demonic power, sealed gateways, and routed several attempts at political take over in New Sarshel.

The Watchtower is a small Oghmanyte faction is not in any way affiliated with the factions of Procampur's Orthodox Church of Oghma and the Cormyrian Oghmanyte Church in Exile.

== Watchtower History ==

During the summer of the year 1445 the Citadel of Conjurers opened wide its gates and let forth a wave of destruction known as the Fraternity of Tharos.   An army of demonologists and their cultist puppets that spread across the central plains of Impiltur to make their growing might known to the Grand Council.  At that time a small settlement had begun to take root in the ruins of Outentown, a once large town that stood north-west of New Sarshel.  They were fortunate to have received some warning of the approaching forces and managed to flee in their homes in time.  Two smaller towns, Filur and Songhal, west of New Sarshel, did not have such a warning and were caught by surprise when the Fraternity arrived in the dead of night.  Both villages were razed after the much of the populace was killed, some were taken captive, and those who escaped fled east to New Sarshel.  The Fraternity continued to march eastward and appeared as if it would lay seige to New Sarshel.  For reasons that are still unknown the Fraternity abruptly stopped their advance a short distance from the city, turned, and marched back toward the west and presumably straight into the bowels of the Earthspur Mountains to their wretched Citadel.

The Watchtower would be born out of the flaming wreckage of Songhal as hundreds of refugees streamed into New Sarshel from all over the countryside.  New Sarshel was ill-equipped to handle so large a migrant force and the city was forced to close its gates.  The refugees starting to build a makeshift tent-city against the city wall and a small Oghmanyte chapel.  The chapel's clergy did their best to accommodate their new arrivals, serving what food they could spare and restoring morale with ancient stories from tomes centuries old.

An young Advocate by the name of Nestrius Adamanth was quite open about his contempt for the Grand Council and their pathetic attempts at stamping out the threat of the demon worshippers and preached his contempt to any who would listen.  The survivors from Songhal listened, and Nestrius' speeches roused them into action against those who side with demonkind.  The small chapel's congregation grew almost twenty-fold that day and continued to grow during the coming weeks as word was spread that action would be taken, that knowledge would lead to justice.  Word spread beyond the refugee camp, and others joined the growing forces of the charismatic Oghmanyte in order to lend their skills and services.  Throughout these weeks, the Loremasters of the chapel grew to fear the direction in which Advocate Nestrius was taking their order and set about a motion to excommunicate him.  Nestrius' followers revolted and gave the Loremasters a choice: stay and accept Nestrius' ideology or abandon their positions in the Church and move on. The Loremasters left with a few of their faithful and Nestrius became the first Loremaster of the Watchtower.

The next few years would see the rise of the Watchtower as a force of relative good in Impiltur; they may occasionally fall on the wrong side of the law but justice was served in the end.  One part mercenary, one part crusade, the Watchtower were willing to dispatch some of the most powerful of demon worshippers if the payment was sufficient: ancient tomes, demonomicons, illegal rituals, anything that could help them understand and better destroy the cultists.  Some Watchmen were occasionally hired by adventurers to accompany them as they scoured ruins and forgotten catacombs, payed in parchment rather than gold.

These first few years were perhaps the bloodiest.  Those suspected of demonology would disappear while Watchmen questioned their families and friends.  If it turned out the suspect was a Weak-Will, the suspect's family would be leveraged for information.  Only the most fringe cultist affiliates ever saw the light of day again.  The Watchtower's actions grew into a full blown inquisition that culminated in the death of a prominent city official. The man was discovered to be a follower of Tharos and was subsequently dragged through the streets and executed.  This action locked the Watchtower into an underground war with Tharos' cultists, one that has been going on for forty years.  Both sides have suffered significant losses, but the Watchtower will prevail.

== Watchtower Tenets ==

Loremaster Nestrius gave this inspirational speech during the inception of the Watchtower in the year, 1445 DR, shortly after the Slaughtering of Songhal at the hands of the Fraternity of Tharos,
"My friends, we must know ourselves so that we may know our enemy.  We must seek out the esoteric and learn the texts the righteous forbid.  They harbour the secrets of the Abyss and a means to its annihilation.  In this quest, we must not stare long into the Abyss for the Abyss will stare back into our souls.  So we must steel our will lest we become the enemy we hate.  Know yourself so that you may resist corruption.  All-knower Oghma will provide us with truth.  We will learn our knowledge through that truth, we will receive strength through that knowledge and we will bolster our selves through that strength.  We are the last bastion against the corruption plaguing this nation.  The gates of hell must be watched over and we shall smite any who cross into our world.  We are the Watchtower of Impiltur."

== Watchtower: Present Day ==

A conversation that took place in the summer of 1484 DR between Loremaster Nestrius and Chief Watcher Windspear,
"Dammit!  You're telling me that goristro breeched the gateway and return to the 57th?"  The grey-haired man shouted at the young officer.

"With all due respect, sir, six of our Watchers were Weak-Wills and tried to flee with the Fraternity.  We failed to protect the gate without them."  The officer replied.

The older man was clearly upset by this and looked away from the officer before saying, "This war has taken too long.  That makes 23 Weak-Wills this month.  We are recruiting from a population of scared children who instead of facing their brutal reality, would rather be enslaved by it.  How many did you retrieve?"

"Four, sir.  One was killed in the ensuing chaos, and the other escaped with the enemy."  The officer reported.

"Take them to the courtyard, have them recite the code in front of initiates and then pitch them into the Well."

"Sir?  The Well is transfixed on the 213th ... are you sure, sir?"  Asked the officer.

"All four of them.  Make certain they understand that I cannot abide those who lay down with demons.  I will redeploy two of the New Sarshel patrols to the gateway.  We can't have any more escaping, that portal is one of the last in this district and once we have it sealed they will be forced to move westward."

"That will be more than enough, sir, thank you."  Said the officer.

"We are the Watchtower ..."  Loremaster Nestrius trumpeted with a salute.

The officer saluted in kind and replied, "... Impiltur's last bastion of freedom!"

A few minutes later the asynchronous chant of wavering voices started quietly but grew to a steady chorus as it echoed up from the courtyard.  One of them was crying but the words of the other three could still be heard, "Knowledge through truth, strength through knowledge, self through strength.  Stave off corruption and resist temptation for we are the last bastion of freedom, we are the Watchtower."  The words hung in the air while their screams grew more distant as they fell into the 213th layer of the Abyss.
