= [Mirtul 6th-8th] Returning From Eastwatch =

The party had only just returned from a successful foray into the Eastwatch Ruins when they were forced to part ways.  Alba Skylark was summoned home by the elves of Yuirwood the night of Mirtul the 6th. They requesting her support against the tides of undead marching upon Aglarond and she left the following morning. The city-dwelling barbarian, Xabbu, immediately set about finding passage back to Kront, as the pay was good and the barbarian needed redemption for failing in his last assignment. Alba Skylark's mission from the Watch Tower had already been delayed, so she hired on the dragonborn sorcerer, Baschrek Tymodes, to provide magical assistance on her journey to the libraries of Yeshelmaar.  The two bought horses and left the morning of Mirtul 7th. Solomon Graywall, Tesh Scardale, and Will Dwimmerholt were all that remained of the original party. They had grown to appreciate and depend upon each other's resourcefulness and skilled weaponry and had become steadfast allies.
right|450px|thumb|Chaos breaks out in the dining room of the Silver Tankard.
Tesh and Will decided to help Solomon in his task and the three of them met up to discuss the details in the Silver Tankard on the north side of Uthmere, the night of Mirtul the 8th.

= [Mirtul 8th] Tipping the Silver Tankard =

The taverns of Uthmere were in the height of the 'Fortnight of Glory', a time of taverns hosting and toasting to tales of adventure and mystery. The Silver Tankard was no exception and the two men quietly recounted the events of Eastwatch in a sea of merry-patrons. Solomon reflected on the peculiar Orbus Cedarstaff and his possible ties to Ersius Reshwind, the demons, and his medallion. The drink had gotten to both of them, for Solomon's impatience and profound dislike for all things urban had surfaced and he found himself very uncomfortable and agitated within the stone walls of the city. While Tesh started up on a tirade about the corruption of the Sembians and how they always manage to attract all sorts of evil like the Shadowmasters. Will was beyond help when he barged in through the doors, covered in women and illusions of grandeur. Shortly after Will's entrance, a large man by the name of Dresden introduces himself to Solomon and Tesh, interested in how the two of them had encountered a demon and lived to tell the tale. 

The pleasantries were short-lived when a group of rowdy dockworkers entered the tavern and started causing problems with the patrons. A fight broke out that Tesh and Solomon wanted no part of, while Dresden almost singlehandedly took care of the brutish men. Through the use of a few spells and some smashed furniture the troublemakers are unconscious and the crowd calmed into a magic sleep.  At that time Cudgels stormed the establishment and the four of them notice smoke had began to fill the tavern, a fire had been started. The Cudgels assessed the situation and came to the conclusion that the four of them and a couple others were the cause of the fight and subsequent fire. The four of adventurers put up a fight but begrudgingly allowed the guard to apprehend them and are dragged off to the lock-up in short order.

Tesh remembered an offer from a man named 'Trisham', who claimed to be a Lordlain of the city. Tesh refused his offer to burn down the tavern and not a week later found himself in a cell, framed for the very work he had turned down. The four of them, the dockworkers, and the tavern owner himself spent the night in the north gate lock-up.

= [Mirtul 9th] Unexpected Visitor =

The next morning the adventurers wake to find that some time during the night the tavern owner had been removed from his cell.  The head guard then walked over to them, parchment in hand, and read a long statement to those who remained:

{| class=\"wikitable\" style=\"width:75%\" border=\"1\" cellspacing=\"0\" cellpadding=\"5\" align=\"center\" 
|-
|style=\"background:#efefef;\"|\"With the authority granted me by Lord Uthlain the 10th in accordance with the laws and statutes of Uthmere, its lordlain, and the Hall of Brilliant Justice; I, Torren Trucemore, Lancer of the the Watchful Arms of the Lord's Justice (The Cudgels), read now the following charges that have been laid upon your persons: Aiding and abetting to arson, conspiracy to commit arson, assault and battery of a citizen of Uthmere, disturbing the peace within city walls, and murder of the second degree.

Your court date has been set at one ten-day hence in the grand court within Lord Uthlain's Keep, with the final ruling being read the following day. A reasonable bail has been set at 2,000 pieces of gold or 40 gold bars or 200 pieces of platinum with the accompanying writ-of-approval from Lord Uthlain himself. If bail is posted a vaerance* will be given to you and your movements will be confined within the city limits until your day in court. Both the docks and the Southgate districts are strictly off-limits. Weapons and armour will be left here in the armoury and you will be under an armed escort during your time in Uthmere. Failure to comply with these terms will be seen as a confession of guilt and you will hang from Lord Uthlain's gates.\"
|}

Tesh and Dresden believed themselves to have been set up for some political power-play within the city and had started making plans to find the enemy of their enemy. Those plans would appeared redundant when the Lordlain known as Faerrix (Trisham, to Tesh) descended into the lockup and provided a magical means by which to meet with Uthlain, an agreement that would benefit both parties.

== The \"One-Winged Albatross\" == 
(quote from Dresdan, at one time a short man, now a wizard & scholar)

The party of five travelled through a temporary portal to the throne room of Uthlain's Keep, where they were met by the Lord Richard Uthlain himself, Ashar Jerri-kai, captain of the guard, and two stone giant guards. A long conversation took place to explain all the events of the previous 12 hours that culminated with them standing there.

{| class=\"wikitable\" style=\"width:75%\" border=\"1\" cellspacing=\"0\" cellpadding=\"5\" align=\"center\" 
|-
|style=\"background:#efefef;\"|\"It was supposed to be a simple task really, the Silver Tankard would burn and the remainder of the syndicate prisoners would hang for crimes against this city, in your stead.\" Looking briefly to Tesh, \"Now the matter is far more complex.\"

\"You see, the Shadowmasters are trying very hard to erode this city from within. They fear-monger, sew distrust in the Lordlain and myself and bribe or extort my citizenry. But every few months they try their luck at digging illegal sub-basements under buildings they infiltrate and slowly tunnel beneath the city walls for their smuggling operations. Rumours about a possible tunnel beneath the Silver Tankard were brought to my attention, evidence was collected, and Mr. Smith was arrested and his property seized and razed to set an example.

\"Here is where things get complicated. Four days ago, on the 3rd of Mirtul, Faerrix here found one of the syndicate felons who worked on this illegal tunnel. During the interrogation process, the rumours were proven valid by a series of confessions. Apparently, after the syndicate workers had dug down several feet and started making progress northward, they broke through into a cave-like chamber that reportedly, 'pulsed with a vibrant red and purple glow'.

He continues, \"Eight years ago I had a similar experience beneath this very own keep. I ordered an expansion to be built upon a room that my father had excavated years prior and my workers dug into a cavernous opening that pulsed with a faint red and purple glow. On three occasions I hired groups not unlike yourselves to investigate. Only one person ever came out of there, her skin was flayed and she suffered from severe burns, she wouldn't speak of what happened and instead only screamed -- traumatized by what she had witnessed. She cried for three entire days and passed away the morning of the fourth. Since then I have had the room sealed, warded, and under vigilant guard.

\"In short, what lies beneath this city is potentially dangerous and it frightens me to think what would happen should such knowledge spread through the city. So I hope you can understand why it was easier for me to raze the inn rather than send in my guard ... too many questions would have been asked and rumours of some evil lurking beneath Uthmere would spread like wild fire. This city would be thrown into chaos and abandoned again within months, if not sooner.

\"You were set-up to draw the attention of the citizenry away from whatever lies beneath the Silver Tankard, to prevent any sensitive information from leaking. For three generations we have been rebuilding this city and I will not watch it fall into ruin again because of those damned Shadowmasters.

\"I apologise for the deception but it was necessary to safeguard this secret. If you would be willing to search beneath the city and find out what it is that's down there you will be more than compensated for your troubles. You witnessed the power of one of my trinkets back in the lock-up. Provided you succeed, I will give you free reign to take one item of your choosing from my stores and vaults beneath the keep, as well as wipe clean the charges laid upon you.

He concludes with, \"While the work is dangerous and the incentive somewhat forceful, Faerrix trusts that you are capable of this task given your recent events at the old Eastwatch ruins, and I trust his opinion. I apologize for having not provided you much of a choice, but the Shadowmasters have forced my hand, and yours. What say you?\"
|}

They accepted the assignment, as any man would who had just been bent over a barrel, through clenched teeth. Any disdain they already harboured for Uthmere only grew. They returned to their cells and awaited a certain Lady Murove to bail them out. They would then be legally bound to her until two nights hence, late in the evening of Mirtul the 10th, when the excavation under the Silver Tankard would be complete.

== Enter Lady Murove ==

Sitting in their cells again, it was mid-day before the Sembian merchant-queen arrived with a sealed document turning the five of them over to her. The tall, dark-haired woman wore elegant robes of black trimmed-red and was accompanied by two animated white stone statues: one resembling a gorilla, the other, a devil.

The five had their equipment returned to them, but they would be confined within the city until their court date, Mirtul the 19th. As frustrated as Tesh, Solomon, Dresdan, Will, and Kida were for being helplessly manipulated by the politics of Uthmere, it was clear Murove felt the same. Having just paid 2,000 gp to post their bail, Tesh could rest assured that the Sembian in her burned with anger. 

A thought has just occurred to me, until such a time as the group of adventurers have earned another name, or come up with one themselves they will here by be known as the Five Feathers of the One-Winged Albatross, or, Five Feathers, for short.

Aymelia Murove lead the Five Feathers up to her carriages that would take them to her manor in the High Towers district of the city. Before entering the rear carriage, Will and Solomon spotted a male-figure cloaked in shadow watching them, shaking his head before they tried to open the carriage door. When Will reached out to open the carriage door he found a throwing dagger that had narrowly missed him, embedded in the wood. Obviously, these people did not want the Five Feathers to be working with Murove.

At the manor, Lady Murove appeared to be a collector of Narfell antiquities, star charts, and other tasteful items of value. One glass plate had a design similar to the one found on Solomon's medallion. Their curiosity was interrupted by the lady of the house herself. She explained how she had no interest in working with criminals, but could not deny the overall benefit of pitting criminals against criminals. She had been having trouble with the Shadowmasters stealing and vandalizing her wares of late, some had even tried to break into her home. She wanted the Five Feathers to protect the unloading and transportation of some crates from her merchant ship, the Dawncaller, that was due to arrive later that night. She informed them that it was supposed to have arrived yesterday morning, but that inclement weather had apparently slowed its voyage.
right|450px|thumb|A battered Sembian vessel limps into Uthmere's port.
Tesh was not pleased to be helping this \"Sembian whore\", but the party obliged as if they had a choice. There appeared no end in sight for their dislike of Uthmere, its problems, and its peoples. While it was frustrating for them to have their knee bent to such a woman, it at least guaranteed their relative autonomy until their court-date. So they left the manor and spent the day preparing for the ship's arrival.

== Darkness Aboard the Dawncaller ==

The Five Feathers struck out to the Waterfront district to best figure out how to protect the shipment Murove had tasked them. Solomon perched on the roof tops, keeping an eye on the surrounding rooftops as well as the back alleys. Will was granted work for the day by the dock master, trying his best to intermingle with the other dock workers and see if any were Shadowmasters. Tesh, Kida, and Dresdan had chores to do elsewhere in the city: potions to buy, supplies to acquire, etc. They all returned to the docks around 22:00 hours the night of Mirtul the 9th, to meet with Murove's warehouse workers. A thick fog had rolled in the last few hours and the ship could barely be seen as it approached the docks, it looked like it had been through a hurricane.

{| class=\"wikitable\" style=\"width:75%\" border=\"1\" cellspacing=\"0\" cellpadding=\"5\" align=\"center\" 
|-
|style=\"background:#efefef;\"|You are standing on the docks and through the soupy fog you can barely see the outline of the 120-foot-long twin-mast Sembian trade-ship as it rounds the breakwater. As the Dawncaller coasts in you can hear orders being shouted from its deck and lines are tossed down to the workers followed by a large gangplank that is extended onto the pier. 

The torchlight barely illuminates the condition of the ship and from what you can see it's in rough shape. Its headsails are ripped or missing entirely and a lot of the mast-lines are cut or untied, the square-rigged mainsail has split from the mast and is lying across the deck.

There's a commotion among the workers as a group of three come down from the ship to meet the dock master. They are bound at the throat and tied to one another, one of them is missing an ear and all three have broken gnarled hands.

The one in the middle has a cloth covering his eyes and speaks once he reaches the dock in a quiet and rasping voice he whispers, \"He is coming...\" His body jerks upright and suddenly falls forward, pulling the other two to the dock with him, all three have crossbow bolts in their backs.

The dockworkers for all their strength and fortitude scatter, jumping into the dark waters, or running off into the fog to alert a guard. You can hear laughter coming from the deck of the ship.
|}

It appeared that Will had been on the right track, as some of the dock workers were Shadowmasters in disguise, although he could only recognize one, maybe two from his day of work. Fighting broke out on the docks and continued onto the ship itself as wave after wave of Shadowmasters poured out of the holds of the ship. The Five Feathers bested the syndicate and after a short break began to explore the ship for the crates Murove sent them to retrieve. Room after room told the same tale: there was a violent struggle that left most of the interior of the ship bloodied and destroyed. Almost everything of value had been taken by the thieves, how it was stolen was unknown. They continued on, fighting their way through more Shadowmasters and vermin until they reached the ship's dining hall.

{| class=\"wikitable\" style=\"width:75%\" border=\"1\" cellspacing=\"0\" cellpadding=\"5\" align=\"center\" 
|-
|style=\"background:#efefef;\"|Before the mutiny, this was the mess hall for the ship's crew, it has since been transformed into a slaughter house. There are four long tables covered in bodies, pieces of meat, and limbs. Surrounding these tables are several men covered in blood, looming over the table furthest away is a dark robed man. There are piles of meat, tissue, and limb against the far wall, above them you can see why. They have been carving the crew up and are writing a message on the wall, written with limbs and sinew. It's hard to read but you can make out three words: \"He is coming\". The floor has been carved with numerous unrecognizable symbols and in the centre of the room is the covered grate for lowering cargo into and out of the hold. The man in dark robes wheels around as you enter and in a crazed voice, says \"Not the shadow rats I was expecting, but you will do. More meat for the message, carve them.\"
|}

The battle that followed was strange and disturbing. These butchers were unlike anything they had encountered before - twisting the very minds of the Five Feathers. For each madman slain the adventurers minds were wracked with pain. Each spell they were hit with only seemed to force their hand against both friend and foe. They fought hard after a bloody fight they had succeeded in cleansing the ship of this strange cult.  But at what cost to their psyche?  The dining hall explained the absence of bodies, as they had been hacked to pieces for their disgusting message that echoed the words of that pour sightless dwarf on the dock.

Searching the fallen, they found this:

centre|450px|thumb|The scroll of human leather carried by the cult priest.

The Five Feathers have many theories on the deity to which this message might be referencing. Kossuth, Lord of Flames? Shar, the Nightsinger? Still, they came not to the Dawncaller to dabble in cult ramblings, they had crates to find. So they returned to the deck and began to descend into the hold-proper.

== Vermin in the Hold ==

When they got to the belly of the ship they could over hear a few syndicate members talk to one another as they were removing the remaining cargo from the Dawncaller. It was clear that the Shadowmasters were not in league with the cult and that the cult had already been on the ship prior to the Shadowmasters pirating the ship mere hours ago. The two accompanying Dark Magus Apprentices had spent most of their energy and mental capacities maintaining a weak portal that lead somewhere within the city limits. Magic-assisted theft - effective to say the least. 

The Five Feathers made no effort to hide and were quickly spotted. The ensuing battle was relatively one-sided and the henchmen were cut down with ease while the exhausted Dark Magus tried in vain to slow the advance of the Five Feathers by calling forth shadowy tendrils that would beat and pummel them to the floor. The Shadowmasters retreated to the aft of the ship where, unbeknownst to even Solomon's keen eyes, a spell-scarred lycanthrope by the name of Brorim had set off kegs of blackpowder to sink the ship and erase any evidence. He descended from his stealthy perch on top of a tall stack of crates just as the powderkegs detonated, knocking everyone to the ground and deafening them from the close-quarter explosion. The spellscar turned out to be all show as he erupted in spellfire and twisted magics pulled everyone toward him only to cause a secondary explosion that hurtled them into the walls of the hold. Brorim was dispatched in short order, but not before Will contracted a disease by the name of Filth Fever (which he shook off the following morning after a tumble with some of the Sails and Stars girls). 

With the ship cleared of villains they now had the difficult task of finding Murove's crates before the waters consumed the Dawncaller. The ship was taking on water at an alarming rate and within a few seconds the Five Feathers found it difficult to move about without falling over. Dresden was sent ahead to lift the grates leading to the hold and to figure out how to use the crane. Solomon chased after him and helped clear some of the debris while the rest remained in the hold and move the crates into position. By the time they had reeled up the crates and cast them out over the docks nearly a third of the ship was underwater and sinking fast. Dresden and Solomon managed to lower the crates with the help of Will and Tesh's directions, saving Murove's crates with mere seconds remaining. Dresden, Solomon, Kida, and Tesh jumped into the water while Wil - bedecked in platemail - chose to jump for the docks. He built up a running start and cast himself off the highest point of the ship, sailing through the air before landing in a broken heap on the dock. Kida had to rush to stabilize him, as he had nearly killed himself from the fall.

The Cudgels and Tall Guard (stone giants) arrived with Captain Jerri-kai in time to see the ship sink, and pretended not to know of the Five Feathers, put on an act for the rest of the guard. Calling for their surrender and taking statements after realizing they were indeed, not Shadowmasters. The genasi was shocked at the retelling of the dining hall and the cultists and could offer no further insight into their presence in Uthmere or history. She was eager to hear of the portal by which the Shadowmasters relieved Murove of her valuables, and sent guards out the scour the city. She did tell the five of them how there were rumours of a wererat among the Shadowmasters, what role he played or his connection to the organization was unknown. It is believed that Brorim may be part of a clan of spell-scarred lycanthropes that the original seven met in the Eastwatch Ruins, why he joined the Shadowmasters or what ties the clan has with the syndicate are currently unknown. 

The party returned to Mother Mrelda's, a small lodging house in the Northward, well after midnight on Mirtul the 10th and got an honest night's sleep.

= [Mirtul 10th] Sembian Expectations Run High =

The Five Feathers were expected to return to Murove's manor around noon. Having just spent the evening risking death and madness to retrieve her precious cargo, the five were glad to be done with the Sembian. When they arrived one of her servants was there to meet the group, he handed them a plain looking scroll-tube. Before Dresdan could give the scroll a once-over, Tesh hastily opened the case and began to read the parchment. Tesh could feel a pain growing in the back of his mind as his eyes glazed over, forced to read aloud the words on the page:

{| class=\"wikitable\" style=\"width:75%\" border=\"1\" cellspacing=\"0\" cellpadding=\"5\" align=\"center\" 
|-
|style=\"background:#efefef;\"|My patience is stretching thin. Find the five crates I had on that ship or you will be reacquainted with the inside of the lock-up to await your execution. I am but a hair's breadth away from renegotiating this vaerance, do not forget how easily replaceable you are. ~~ A.M.
|}

This cast the Five Feathers into a dark mood, they had just risked their lives to return two of her crates but she is now demanding five. Adventurers are rarely treated with respect, or fairness, in times such as these. The party lacked seedy connections and their collective street-smarts were found wanting.  So they decided it prudent to return to Captain Ashar Jerri-Kai and see if she could provide them with any leads.

While she could provide a few places for them to start looking, she herself could not provide any solid leads. She has had scores of city guard searching the city for years and only rarely do they discover operatives, warehouses, or meeting places of the Shadowmasters. She gave them two options: The first would involve them storming into the alleyways of the Waterfront or Shadow Streets districts, which she advised against. The other, more diplomatic route, was to start asking around at the various shops and taverns, because at some point in time they have all been contacted by the Shadowmasters in one way or another.

== Searching the City ==

They left Captain Jerri-kai's office and made their way down to the local pawn shop that Dresdan had suggested called, Old Haelbow's House. It was located on the river that divided the city into north and south and it was at this time that they noticed a strange mixture of smoke pouring out of the Silverstone Streets. Now they had only been in Uthmere for a few days, but they had grown accustom to the plumes of black smoke that billowed out of the city's forges, except for Solomon of course. The smoke hovering over the south side of the city had a strange hue of blues and purple smoke mixed into it. Remembering their final encounter with Orbus Cedarstaff, the party remembered his tower is in the Silverstone Streets. The Five Feathers had more pressing matters to attend to and given their treatment by the city officials and citizens, they were not about to do them any favours. So they pressed on to the strangely constructed pawnshop, Haelbow's House.

Inside they found a mess of shelves, boxes, and barrels containing all manner of goods, both useful and useless. Dresdan kept an eye out for any other crates emblazoned with the arcane signature of Murove. When they finished searching the upper floors they went down into the basement and hit pay dirt when they discovered a small box with a similar arcane mark. 

Solomon and Tesh left the building to watch the doors and stopped anyone from entering during their interrogation of Mr. Haelbow. The older man was easily flustered and his spirit crushed when Dresdan and Wil started to grill him. He explained how he had been working with the Shadowmasters for the last two years, he got a small cut for keeping his mouth shut and letting them use his building to store stolen merchandise from time to time. When asked how the merchandise was moved in and out, he explained how it would just show up during the night from time to time.  Dresdan later confirmed that there were trace amounts of residuum in the basement, left over from a portal ritual.

He couldn't provide anything more than that and when Wil started to threaten violence he panicked until he remembered a friend of his who worked for the guard.  His friend said that there were recent reports of syndicate activity in the north end of the dock district near Storaungh Square.
300px|thumb|The beggar who almost got away.
With that information, the Five Feathers at least had a somewhat solid lead they could move on. Haelbow begged Wil and Dresdan not to turn him in and claimed that he was forced into dealings with the Shadowmasters. They chose to spare him and for that, the Five Feathers have a pretty experienced and successful fence and information broker should they ever need his services in the future.

== Ylantara Omrantle ==

It was then early afternoon and the weather was beginning to turn for the worse, rain clouds were rolling in. The Five Feathers took Haeblow at his word and walked over to Storaungh Square near the northern end of the Waterfront. The square was busy that day, children played on the statue, carts and waggons stacked high with goods moved to and from the docks, Tormites collected alms, and crowds moved throughout the square.  Numerous businesses that looked in on the square had one kind of discount or another going on. The five of them split up, some searching through the square for anything out of the ordinary, others moved into the alleyways. Solomon spotted a few larger thug-looking dockworkers and a beggar sitting in the gutter. When the other four joined him the beggar stood up and walked off into the adjacent alley, Solomon or Tesh thought they spotted black garments - similar to what the Shadowmasters wear - beneath his ragged sackcloth. They moved toward the man, but this only startled him into a sprint and he tore off down the alleyways. 

The five split up and gave chase, hoping to cut him off. It wasn't long before they trapped him in an alleyway and Solomon slowed him to a halt by tethering his feet with a spiderbolt. Panicked, the beggar began to climb an adjacent building to escape and nearly 10-feet up was struck by another of Solomon's precise shots, sending him hurtling to the ground. After the beggar was stabilized by Kida, Wil and Dresdan began another lengthy and bloody interrogation.  Between spitting out teeth and blood, he informed the party that he was watching the warehouse and that the Shadowmasters knew of the five of them from the events on the Dawncaller. The Five Feathers carried his unconscious body over to the warehouse while Solomon and Tesh went in from the roof.
left|300px|thumb|Ylantara moving with ease under cover of night.
Solomon cracked a sunrod to illuminate the pitch black old storehouse. Seeing the coast clear, the two went down to open the door for the remaining three and they dragged the Shadowmaster into the warehouse and shut the door behind them. While they waited for the Shadowmaster to revive they searched the piles of crates for any that bore the arcane mark of Murove. They couldn't find any, assuming there to be some kind of secret door or tunnel by which to gain entry into the actual storage room. The five start to rough-up the criminal in their position, but they are interrupted when he started quietly laughing to himself. A woman called out from the hole in the ceiling, where Solomon and Tesh jumped in.  The sunrod's light diminished and the shadows grew around them. As more thieves jumped in from the roof and barged in through the door she called for the deaths of the Five Feathers for their interference with the Dawncaller.  By now it is raining heavily and the 2nd floor of the warehouse is getting soaked. The fight that followed was fierce as the Five Feathers had to stay in what little light was available in order to hit their foes. A new enemy, called an Umbral Agent could move through the shadows as if they were gateways and melt away into the darkness after each deadly attack. Dresdan, Wil, and Solomon eventually cornered the Umbral and finished it and the remaining criminals off before hauling the bodies in from the now quieter streets and closing the doors again.

They set about searching the remainder of this warehouse before searching for any hidden or concealed doors. They found one along the south-east wall, it was locked and Solomon discovered a trap mechanism. He successfully delayed the trap and stood back as two poison-tipped crossbow bolts shot from opposite sides of the door, criss-crossed in front of him and buried themselves into the opposite wall. They slid the door open and entered into what appeared to be the storage room of the leather store, Fine Leathers. They could hear talking coming from one of the rooms adjacent to it and kicked the door in, surprising the Shadowmasters inside. The fight was swift and brutal in favour of the Five Feathers as they stormed into the room and formed an impenetrable phalanx that prevented their enemies from surrounding them. Victorious, they searched the bunk room and descended down the stairs into one of the illegal basements that Shadowmasters are fond of excavating.

Wooden support beams lined the walls and ceiling and another large store of crates and boxes were piled against the walls. Solomon went to investigate a bedroom in the adjacent room and discovered a locked chest and a shrine dedicated to Shar and the dead god, Mask. Solomon discovered another trap mechanism and this time failed to disarm it, soaking himself in oil only to have a burst of flame shoot out of the keyhole, lighting him ablaze. Meanwhile back upstairs, Dresdan was watching the door they had just come through as the lights grew dim again and the woman, this time accompanied by two Umbrals entered the room. More shadowmasters kicked open trapdoors in the ceiling and fell upon those in the underground warehouse. Solomon had a hard time putting out the flames and was nearly laid to rest by one of the Umbral's black blades. The fighting continued upstairs where Wil had moved to intercept the woman, knocking her to the ground. Blow after blow was exchanged as the Umbrals moved in and out of the shadows, the woman began to back out of the room, throwing down caltrops to slow the advance of Wil, Tesh, and Kida's spirit companion. Once the Umbrals fell she fled out of the old warehouse into the pouring rain.

Searching the basement they found a jar of the illegal narcotic, blue dust, as well as the remaining three crates belonging to Murove. Inside were books on excavation, digging, climbing equipment, ropes, and items of that nature. The party left the dock district straight for Murove's warehouse and returned the crates, earning their freedom from the Sembian at long last. They then marched north to speak with Captain Jerri-kai about the hideout they had discovered and to turn in the blue dust they had found. She thanked and provided them a sizable monetary reward and immediately ordered guards to secure the area around the warehouse. When they gave a description of the woman they encounter, Captain Jerri-kai was certain they meant Ylantara Omrantle, a deadly assassin for the Shadowmasters and probably in some position of power within the Uthmere syndicate.

By now it was approaching early evening and the adventurers decided to take a rest before their descent beneath the city.

== Returning to the Tarnished Tankard ==

The well-rested Five Feathers met up within eye-sight of the pile of wreckage that used to be the Silver Tankard. It was 22:00 hours and they stayed out of sight of the two guards, one was fast asleep, watching the newly erected fence surrounding the debris. By 23:00 a patrol of eight Cudgels, lead by Captain Jerri-kai, marched around the north side of the building and immediately called for the surrender of the two guards. The one who was awake ran off into the alleyway, while the other tripped over himself and fell to the ground. The patrol immediately arrested him while three more Cudgels dragged the limp body of the second into view. They then marched off toward the Northgate, dragging their prisoners with them, but not before placing an arcane lock on the fence. After a few minutes the Five Feathers quietly moved to the fence where Dresdan broke through the magic barrier.

Once inside the fence they proceeded into the blackened remains of the inn. Some of the debris has been moved away and there was a path leading through what was once the dining hall into the kitchen area. The wood floor was weakened from the fire and they could see holes scattered across its surface. They went into the basement and found the door that Faerrix had warded off. Solomon waved the stone Faerrix had given them in front of it and the door swung open. They descended into the tunnel the Shadowmasters were attempting to dig beneath the city wall. The air was much more humid and cooler down there, the smooth earthen walls glistened with moisture that reflected the red and purple light described by Uthlain.

== Beneath the City ==
450px|thumb|What lies in the shadows this far down?
The Five Feathers found themselves in a large system of tiered caves that continued to descend deeper the further they explored. Small pools of murky water ringed by cave slime and fungi dotted the cave floor beneath dripping stalactites. Wil lead the way with his shield magically illuminated by Dresdan, the rest carried torches to stave off whatever creatures may crawl and hunt in the darkness. Bats, to the wizard's dismay, clung to the ceilings and smaller non-threatening ones fled from the approaching light. Some larger bats, however, were agitated by the lights and tried to swoop-in to attack the party. Dresdan was confident they were trying to burrow into his skull through his eye sockets.

They worked their way up and down ledges, into large caves and out of small ones, all the while following the direction the pulsing waves of light were coming from. After one very long tunnel that took them deep beneath the city they came upon an open cavern and the source of the light, an enormous wall of obsidian that stretched into the darkness in every direction. The waves of purple and red light coalesced in seemingly random patterns across its surface. Solomon decided to test a theory and shot a bolt at the wall, it ricocheted off and shattered against the cave wall. Dresdan tapped his fountain of arcane knowledge and thought it to be some kind of protective magic, or possibly a signal of some kind; had this been in the Dalelands, he would be confident in claiming it a Mythal. Unable to do anything more they moved on from the wall of obsidian.

They returned up the long path and climbed west through another series of tunnels until they happened upon a large rough-hewn circular room with a series of five-foot holes in the floor and walls. There were also tracks off all sizes covering the floor which Tesh identified as belonging to some kind of large family of beetle. A torch was thrown into the centre of the room and after a few minutes, skittering noises could be heard down the holes. Recalling their last encounter with the Kruthik at Eastwatch, they decided to turn back and look for more sections of the obsidian wall before delving into another bug nest.

left|300px|thumb|Kida and the cavefisher.
Rather than backtracking through the tunnels they had just come through, they travelled south into a long sloped cavern, its floor covered in stalagmites. They stopped a short ways in at a small opening in the cavern wall and Wil entered shield-first. Inside he found a terrible odour and looking around realized why: he was standing in a cavefisher nest. All around this cave were pools of fetid water filled with clutches of semi-transparent egg sacs as well as cavefisher spawn cringing from the brilliant light coming from his shield. Wil motioned for the others to join him and when they did, Tesh informed the group that cavefisher spawn aren't aggressive unless the adults are nearby. So they decided to press on through the cavefisher nest and up the slope along the opposite wall of the cavern. When Wil was just beginning to climb up the slope an adult cavefisher approached the edge and immediately spat a long strand of filament at him while walking up an adjacent wall to the ceiling. Within a matter of seconds Wil was dangling fifteen-feet in the air, held securely by the cavefisher angler clinging to the ceiling. In response, Tesh had two arrows nocked before you could say \"cavefisher\", took aim, and released them at the thin strand suspending Wil. The twin arrows tore through the filament from fifty feet, releasing his friend. Wil fell to the ground amidst several of the spawn that had been called-to-arms by their parent. Even more had begun to swarm around the other four while stirges descended upon them from the ceiling. Dresdan unleashed a fiery inferno that roasted every spawn within fifteen feet of him, Kida also used the power of her magic robes to push back any of the spawn that approached her. Once Wil was down the angler spun another filament and moved on to Kida, catching her around the throat as she was slowly pulled toward the ceiling. Wil scrambled to his feet only to find himself bound by yet another strand of filament, preventing him from falling back to help his allies. Two larger cavefishers darted passed him toward the group, staying high along the walls, well out of reach of his sword-arm. These two cavefishers continued to shoot sharp spikes of spun filament at the four while they fought off the remaining spawns. Unfortunately two of the stirges latched onto Solomon and Tesh and began to drain the lifeblood out of them. The fate of the Five Feathers was beginning to look bleak but hope was restored once Dresdan snapped the filament choking Kida to death with a magic missile. Between the wizard and Solomon, they managed to finish off the angler clinging to the ceiling, allowing the party to focus their attacks on the more immediate threats. The spawn fell steadily around them until all that remained were the stirges and the two cavefishers on the walls. Arrows, bolts, magic missiles, and filament spikes flew back and forth in a dazzling display, reflecting the small amount of torch light. As the last cavefisher fell from the wall and the satisfying sound of its chitin crunching from the impact they could breathe a sigh of relief, battle was won. They freed Wil and slew the remaining adult and moved on from the decaying nest.

== The Chuul Pool ==

Exiting the south side of the caves led them back into the stalagmite tunnel that they avoided earlier and continued south, up the sloping tunnel into an oval-shaped cavern. Along the north cave wall was a fair-sized pool of fresh water. It was fed by a small stream running out of the south wall. The room was filled with all kinds of mushrooms and slimes, exceptionally large mushrooms too. Tesh hadn't seen these sorts of mushrooms before, but he had heard of them and given his expertise with natural fauna he correctly identified them as falsecaps - a kind of hallucinogenic fungus. What he forgot about was that the mechanism that allowed them to release their spores was proximity, and Wil, Tesh, and Dresdan were swimming in spores within seconds. Dresdan merely sneezed after inhaling the hallucinogenic spores. Wil and Tesh inhaled a lung full without realizing and began to stagger further into the room which only caused more of the falsecaps to release spores, eventually they both collapsed to the ground from being so disoriented. The ecosystem of this cavern system was very well-tuned, you see, and shortly after the mushrooms blew their spores into the air the waters of the pool began to churn with activity.

A monstrous male chuul and several females emerged from the water at once and attempted to grab hold of the disoriented Wil and Tesh. The large chuul clamped onto Tesh and was about to crush him a moment later had Wil not returned to his senses and charge the beast, tucking his shoulder behind his shield and knocking it over, freeing Tesh from its claws. Solomon fired bolt after bolt into the cavern while Kida and Dresdan tried to incapacitate the chuuls closest to them, Tesh and Wil were surrounded on all sides and caught in the swirling melee of pincers and blades.
300px|thumb|Down the spiral tunnel they go.
What they didn't know was that the falsecaps would continue to pour fresh spores into the air every few seconds, and this time all of the Five Feathers were breathing them in. Dresdan must have been immune to them, as he just scratched his nose while Wil, Tesh, Solomon, and Kida all staggered around. Tesh and Will both collapsed again, while Kida and Solomon caught their balance on the cave wall, however, she was dangerously close to the water's edge and the chuuls noticed. After the next round of attacks by the creatures, Wil was caught in the pincer-grip of the male chuul, squeezing the life out of him while the remaining chuul continued to attack the party. Tesh was bloodied beyond belief and Kida couldn't speed his recovery because one of the female chuuls had grabbed hold of her and was beginning to drag her into the water. Just as it started to pull her under Tesh, beaten and bloodied nocked one last arrow and stunned the creature long enough for it to get pushed away by a spell, freeing her. Dresdan grew tired of his allies being incapacitated by these mushrooms, so he strode into the room and unleashed a swirling inferno: back-to-back shrouds of flame. The chuul had never seen anything like it. The first set of flames burnt into their retreating eye-stalks and boiled away all the slimy water on their bodies. It superheated their chitin, cooking their pink flesh beneath. Had they been able to see, they would have witnessed their mushrooms burning and popping all around them. Then Dresdan spoke the incantation to do it again - everything that wasn't water was on fire. In an instant the tide of battle changed, with the chuul burning and the mushrooms no longer poisoning the air, the bloodied Wil and Tesh were confident they would live to see another day. The Five Feathers had laid waste to the serene cave they had walked into and all that remainder were smouldering piles of chuul and mushroom stalks.

They rested for a short while and explored the south exit of the room and, seeing it descend in a spiralling tunnel, decided to head east instead. Half way down the tunnel they heard the familiar sound of goblins talking and what sounded like scratching of some sort. Solomon moved amongst the shadows and stealthily approached them. There were two pale-skinned goblins wearing ragged leather loincloth and carrying sharpened flint knives, trying to chip away at another vast wall of illuminated obsidian they were sitting on top of. Nearby were two large beetles adorned with some make-shift saddles. Solomon slowly loaded his crossbow, as to not make a sound, and fired at one. The goblin screamed as the bolt shot straight through his shoulder and they both ran for their beetle mounts without ever seeing Solomon. They charged back up the tunnel where the rest of the party was waiting, trying to escape whatever invisible horror was attacking them. Which proved problematic for Solomon, because the large rhinoceros beetles were barrelling straight for him.  He was spry enough to narrowly avoid them by squeezing up alongside the cave wall as they rode passed into the phalanx of Will, Tesh, and Kida's spirit companion. The fight was short and restored the morale of the Five Feathers after the almost catastrophic encounters with the cavefishers and chuul. After resting up they returned to the cavern of chuul corpses and ventured down the spiral tunnel.

= [Mirtul 11th] The Last Guardian =

500px|thumb|The black door that the earth elementals guarded.
At the bottom of the 60-foot descent, they found that the cave forked to the east and west.  They chose the east path and continued down another series of tiered tunnels until they arrived at the opening into a spacious cavern at least 50- or 60-feet tall, below them was a stretch of cave floor overlooked by 40-foot cliffs on its north and south sides.  Dividing the room in half, north-to-south, was a small stream lined with slick moss and cave slimes.  Beyond the water, embedded into the cave wall, was a colossal obsidian doorway carved with chaotic designs and emblazoned with numerous ancient symbols.  

Between the party and the doorway stood a lone creature, a galeb duhr from what Tesh could see.  It appeared asleep, or maybe just resting, if earthen creatures do such things.  The party pondered it a moment and realized that none of them could understand nor speak giantkin, dwarven, or deepspeech - taking diplomacy off the table.  They moved into the room with Wil leading the way, his shield still magically illuminated.  When they were but a few steps in the galeb duhr stirred, sand and rocks crumbling off it as consciousness returned to the stone form once again.  The moss that had begun to grow across its surface was torn as it took a step forward and began to speak the words of the galeb duhr.  A pattern of deep sounds akin to stones being ground and knocked together emerged from its mouth, this continued for close to a minute and then abruptly stopped.  The Five Feathers stood there listening as its words resounded off the cavern walls into silence, unclear as to its message and unable to gain insight into its mannerisms.  

The Five decided that they had to get to that door and if they had to destroy a galeb duhr, then so be it.  Wil, Tesh, and Dresdan moved further into the cavern and after a few more paces the galeb duhr let out a violent roar that shook the room.  Three smaller galeb duhr climbed out of the cave floor to surround the party that had advanced forward.  The leader buried its hands into the ground next to it, phasing into the rock beneath and tore out an enormous chunk of the cave floor and hurled it at the Wil, Tesh, and Dresdan.  It crashed into them, knocking them to the floor and blanketing the area with rubble.  Wil and Tesh broke off to face one of the smaller galeb duhr one-on-one, while Dresdan moved out of the rubble only to slip on some of the cave slime and fall into the cold stream.  Kida and Solomon fired off volleys of spells and bolts at the lead galeb duhr which only enraged it.  The leader sank beneath the ground and began to burrow toward them.  The smaller galeb duhr were attacking Wil and Tesh for all they could and given Tesh's shaken state from his last encounter Dresdan and Kida's spirit companion moved to assist him.  The Five Feathers fought hard and were beginning to smash increasingly larger chunks of earth and stone from these creatures when two more elementals stepped out of the cliff face adjacent to Tesh and Wil and began their assault.

Tesh was immediately blooded and knocked unconscious by the assault and Wil fell back to assist Kida, as one of the smaller galeb duhr had charged at her while curling up into a boulder, knocking her to the ground.  Dresdan and Kida's spirit companion were still holding off the galeb duhr and elemental trying to crush Tesh and Solomon was volleying a storm of crossbow bolts into the fray.  Due to Tesh's proximity to the spirit companion, Kida was able to resuscitate Tesh, who climbed to his feet and fought on.  Tesh and Dresdan had began to fall back to Kida and Wil when the larger galeb duhr emerged from the cave floor amidst them.  The creature lifted its stone arms and slammed them to the ground, cracking the cave floor and sending out a shockwave to everyone around him.  Three of them were pushed back and knocked to the floor while Wil and Solomon continued to fight on.  Two of the smaller galeb duhr as well as the largest one fell in the next round of attacks.  One earth elemental sank into the floor and moments later was assaulting Solomon on his 10-foot perch.  It was a last ditch effort while the four of them finished off the remaining earthen creatures below.

The battle was won and they moved forward to investigate the door.  The party found themselves standing in front of the massive wall of obsidian layered with protective magics.  What they might have considered the actual door was some 20-feet tall and 10-feet wide.  There was no door handle and no hinges, just smooth obsidian gears, triggers, discs, and plates that would be enough to send a follower of Gond into throws of ecstasy.  There were arcane runes, some ancient but vaguely recognizable to Dresdan, others were all-together alien in design and scope.  When Solomon palmed his medallion he could make out similarities in the shapes and patterns emblazoned on the door.  In the centre of the doorway they saw a metallic disc that was covered in veins of burn marks, it was two feet in diameter and stood 10-feet above them and looked to be embedded in the doorway.  As Solomon moved closer to the door he could feel the two discs attracting one another, almost magnetically.

Unclear as to how the door would open and assuring themselves it wouldn't open while they rested, they decided to take a break and move on in a few hours time.

category:Great Dale Narratives
