== Tome of Knowledge: Yeshelmaar ==

Near the centre of the dale, a great tor rises from the forest. A pristine lake of clear, cold water stands at the foot of the hill.  Carved into the tor is an old stronghold known as Yeshelmaar, built in a days when the Lethyr elves faced destruction at the hands of the sinister Empire of Narfell to the north.  During the wars with the Nars, Yeshelmaar grew higher and deeper, until the original tor was obscured.  Now it is difficult to pick out the transition between the natural stone of the hillside and elven engineering, carved into the tor is the wood-elf stronghold known as, Yeshelmaar. Slender walkways thread the tallest spires, and curling stairways provide external access to many of the towers and lower balconies. Trees root in earth-filled stone planters on nearly every level surface, providing soothing breaks in the otherwise stern stonework. Green ivy grows over the sides of every wall.  The threat of old Narfell has long since passed away, but so have most of the elven folk.  Of the wood elves who once lived here, only a few small villages survive.  The old elven stronghold has become the relatively new fortress of the Circle of Leth.  The Nentyarch and his High Druids formerly inhabited Dun-Tharos in the Dunwood, but they were driven out by the Talontar blightlords over a century ago, and Yeshelmaar became the Nentyarch's seat-in-exile.

Cathedrals of nature, like Yeshelmaar, are grown, not built.  The trees reach to heaven, their branches twining and arching far overhead to form green naves and awe-inspiring living vaults.  The elven architects and druidic forest-keepers who later designed and grew Yeshelmaar created a masterpiece.  Tall spires of elven design have been carved out of the original tor, while large trees and vines have been seamlessly integrated with the architecture, allowing plant and stone to intertwine to form a complex weave of walkways, platforms, and suspended structures that tends to confound those who first gaze upon the forest-stronghold.

The site was first developed by the Circle of Leth when they retreated from Dun-Tharos, as they needed a centralized location to meet during times of worship, celestial events, and periods of the year.  That site of worship has become the most prominent aspect beneath Yeshelmaar's towering canopy and the largest site of druidic worship in this part of Faerûn.  The temple of the triune Gods of Nature: Silvanus, Chauntea, and Mielikki.  Druids and elves from the world over make pilgrimages to this sanctuary of nature to pay tribute to the empyrean wardens of nature.  The temple is believed to be touched by the gods themselves, as numerous rare and never-before-seen forms of plant-life sprout in brilliant colours with amazing medicinal properties.

The site is easily defended, as the trees have taken root within the rocky spire itself.  The main entrance can be sealed and the entire populace can fit inside the stronghold and trees in times of trouble.

Yeshelmaar is the informal capital of the Great Dale, or at least its eastern half.  The Daelen and folk of the lonely clanholds hold a deep reverence for the Nentyarch.  At any given time, two to three dozen druids of the first and second circle,  over one-hundred third-circle druids, and twice that number of Nentyar hunters, foresters, and Daelen occupy the stronghold or the woods nearby, along with a few dozen of the various clansmen who come there seeking advice or assistance from the druids.
500px|thumb|left|A path through the village south of the Citadel.
The Nentyarch is currently engaged in a all out war with the remaining demonic forces that thrive within the scattered Nar ruins within the Dunwood.  Though his armies are spread very thin by the vast area he must protect, he does manage to keep the Daelen and various clans of elves and humans relatively safe from the abyssal threat looming beneath the northern tree line. 

== Geography ==

The Citadel

The central spire of rock that anchors the community forms a tall dome-like shape and is called, the Citadel.  Its exterior is coated with a rich layer of plant life that has taken root and has several stone spires growing out of the surface into the high canopy.  These exterior spires house most druids of the first and second circles of the order, as well as their more powerful arcane and elven allies.  At the very top of the Citadel's exterior is a wide open flat surface where the druids have constructed their temple.  An open and spacious garden full of fey magic and divine fauna the likes of which the world has never before seen.  

The Citadel's interior has been carved into a series of ringed floors with an opening in the centre for a large interwoven mixture of tree and vine that serves as the hometree of Yeshelmaar.  The uppermost floor is devoted to the vast libraries of the druids and elves of the region.  Many scholars, sorcerers, and adventurers journey to Yeshelmaar to glean what knowledge they can from their bountiful bookshelves.  The main floor is where the hometree buries its roots deep into the rich soil, surrounding it in a large circle is a vast open space used for meetings and ceremonies, but also as a place to train during the cold winter months.  Sunlight pours in from the opening in the ceiling that allows one to walk into the roof-top temple and provide a way for the hometree to escape the confines of the stone Citadel.  The floors between the library and the grand hall are used for a variety of different things: some are storage rooms for food, weapons, or tradegoods, others are residential space for those who aren't accustom to sleeping in the treetops, others still house the small crafting and trade guilds of the Forest of Lethyr.  Numerous curved staircases link the different floors to one another, and some even use the larger tree branches as make-shift bridges.

Outside the Citadel

Surrounding the Citadel are numerous smaller buildings built of stone and timber both on the ground and in the trees above.  These buildings extend their way south to the lake's edge and form a village of sorts.  The trade mostly with the Daelen or elven clanholds of the surrounding woodlands, but the odd caravan or two comes in from Bezentil or Kront, rarely do they deal with the Uthmaar.  Herds of livestock graze within the groves of fruit bearing trees and bushes on the eastern side of the city while the trading community 

category:Great Dale Settlements
